<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta name="generator" content="http://calibre-ebook.com"/>
    <title>Linda Nagata - Nanotech Succession 01</title>
    <meta name="author" content="The Bohr Maker"/>
    <meta name="creation-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta name="revision-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre1">
<div class="calibre1"><div class="s2"><h2 class="calibre4" id="calibre_pb_9">   <span class="none3">CHAPTER</span></h2><h2 class="calibre5"></h2></div><div class="calibre1"><div class="s3"><h3 class="calibre6"> <span class="none3">9</span></h3><h3 class="calibre6"></h3></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> </span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Somewhere along the walk back to the warehouse, Phousita and Arif had come to an unspoken agreement. She should not return to the clan with him, at least not now. The children would be better off if they didn’t see her in transition. Plague could be a horrible thing. Even if it turned out all right in the end, the hungers of transition could consume a personality. They’d all seen it: playmates eroding both in mind and body as the disease progressed. Phousita wouldn’t subject them to that again.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	So at the edge of the market district she’d said good-bye to Arif and set out on her own. Pedestrian traffic in the crowded streets moved slowly, held back by the fierce heat of the late morning sun as it steamed through the remnants of the rain clouds that had soaked the city earlier that morning.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita moved at the leisurely pace of the crowd, and as she walked, she found herself examining the faces around her, looking for one with fair skin and blond hair who might be the angel. He seemed to be always in her thoughts. He was the only memory the evil sorcerer had brought to her. She didn’t know if he was good or evil, or what his purpose might be, but she wanted to find out. The spirit inside her wanted to know. Twice she thought she saw him, and she hurried forward, only to draw up abruptly in disappointment as she realized her mistake.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Here in the marketplace only foot traffic could negotiate the narrow streets. People wandered from stall to stall, examining piles of merchandise, haggling, cursing, moving on. Vendors shouted the quality of their wares. Laborers groaned and coughed under the weight of goods to be transported on their backs. Phousita moved carefully through the maze, down the street of the jewelers, on to those selling cloth and spectacles, past the electronics alley and the tea shops. The commotion fascinated her. It seemed familiar and foreign all at once, as if she knew it well, but not in </span><span class="none2">this </span><span class="none">life.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She looked in all the stalls. Stopped to finger the merchandise until the vendors cursed her and told her to move on. She was on sensual overload: the sights, sounds, smells—all gave pleasure to her. At a fruit stand she took out her last coin and purchased two bananas and a drink of river water.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She stood, slowly chewing, savoring the intense flavor of the fruit. Her eye delighted in its gross structure. Her tongue went further. With a sense she had never before possessed, she explored the essential structure of the fruit: the arrangement of its tissue, the careful order of its cells, the precise structure of its component molecules. As her vision shrank, her vocabulary vanished. She had no names for the treasures she discovered. No interest in their meaning or their use. She existed only to observe. And when she understood the most intimate details of the fruit’s construction, she retreated until she stood once again amidst the jostling crowds.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Her chin lifted. She looked about, nostrils flaring as she sorted the myriad scents born on the searing air. The Chinese doctor had opened his office. The crowd noises that had roared so ebulliently in her ears only moments before now seemed muted. Her gaze no longer wandered. She had a goal.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She glided easily through the throng, as if her sharp eyes could see, a moment before it happened, just where the crowd would part. She crossed the last street of stalls and entered a new section of the market. Here the buildings were planned, permanent structures, made of wood and preserved with a stabilizing resin. In the windows, brightly painted signs beckoned to the passers-by. Phousita could read none of them, but then, she didn’t have to. She knew what each shop sold.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She came to Zeke Choy’s shop. A line of customers already hung out the door. They were mostly women, mostly well dressed, with jewelry on their arms. Phousita took a place at the end of the line and stood cock-hipped, waiting patiently in the sun. The old woman stood at her side. Phousita started in surprise at her kindly face. Decades of sun had dried and bronzed the old woman’s skin; her frail shoulders stooped with age. She wore her thin black hair in a tight bun held in place by tiny bone picks, and she’d carefully arranged her sarong to hide all sign of repair. She smiled at Phousita, revealing blackened gums sparsely occupied by teeth. Phousita clung to her skirts and sobbed. She was terrified. She was a waif, a freak, she had no right to be here with these finely dressed women. The old woman caressed her shoulder, mumbling unintelligible encouragement. In the pocket of her sarong she carried the money she’d saved over the past year from her business of selling charms and potions. Enough to buy the services of the Chinese doctor. Such a powerful man! Phousita quailed in fear. </span><span class="none2">I want to go home. I don’t want to grow up. Please, Mother! </span><span class="none">Though of course the old woman wasn’t really her mother. But Phousita was eight years old in mind and body and could remember no other parent. She’d been eight years old for thirteen years, poisoned by her pimp because he didn’t want her charm spoiled by maturity. But today the Chinese doctor would command her body to grow. She looked up, her vision blurred with tears. Who would she be tomorrow?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She reached for the old woman’s hand, but there was no one there. She spun around, searching. Behind her stood a man with raw red sores on his face. Behind him, a pretty woman cradling a tiny baby in her arms. They waited in line, as she did. The old woman was a ghost, dead now several years.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	And Phousita had matured. She had the body of an adult woman, though she’d never gained in height. A toy woman. That’s how she sold herself. The line crept forward. Zeke Choy was a very busy man.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Late in the morning, Phousita grew suddenly restless. A realization had come upon her: the angel was nearby. Somehow, she was aware of his presence. How could that be? She hadn’t scented him. She looked all around, but he was nowhere to be seen. She chewed her lip nervously, wondering how far away he might be. How satisfying it would be to find him, to discover why the evil sorcerer had given her this vision of his face. Yet she couldn’t search for him now. She must see the Chinese doctor. That was urgent. She needed his advice, his knowledge. She craned her neck to gauge the length of the line ahead of her. Ah, not so long now. Only another two or three hours. Good. She would search for the angel tonight.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	At noon the shop closed. All the customers who’d been waiting in the cool interior retreated to the streets, forming a neat line beside those who continued to wait outside. Last of all, the doctor came out. He seemed very tired. People smiled at him and murmured </span><span class="none2">honored sir. </span><span class="none">He acknowledged them in a distant way as his gaze swept down the line. He seemed ready to turn away, hurry off to his lunch, but he hesitated. “Phousita?” he called softly. He stepped toward her.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She bowed her head deeply. </span><span class="none2">“Tuan.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	“You’ve changed. You look different. More … vigorous?” He seemed suddenly aware of the many people who listened. “Come,” he said, crooking a finger. And she left her place in line to follow him down the street.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	<span class="none2">“Tuan,” </span><span class="none">she said, hurrying after him. “I </span><span class="none2">have </span><span class="none">changed. I think I’m becoming a witch. I see many things I never saw before. The old woman’s spirit comes to visit me now. I think she’s pleased.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Zeke snorted. “How many times do I have to tell you there are no such things as witches?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita nodded patiently. “Yes, </span><span class="none2">tuan.” </span><span class="none">The doctor would always insist on that. “Still, I’ve come to ask your advice. Though there are no such things as witches, there are many here who practice the trade. And some of them are very rich and very fat. Since I’ve developed some talents, I, too, would like to practice the witch’s trade. Though of course,” she added hastily, “there are no such things as witches.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Of course,” he said dryly, leading her around the building and to the back entrance of his shop. He passed his hand across a white panel and the door popped open with a squeak. Using his foot, he nudged it open further and went inside. Phousita passed her own hand across the panel, but nothing happened. “Come in,” Zeke called. “The door will close behind you.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita had never been in the shop’s back room before. She looked around curiously, but there was very little to see. Just the kit the doctor had brought to the warehouse, a small refrigerator, a telephone, a TV. On the TV, a picture of the shop’s public area.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Zeke touched her arm. Startled, she turned. He had a rubber cord in his hand. “So you want to be a witch,” he said. “Well, I don’t know anything about witches, but I’m sure one of the charlatans in the market would be glad to find a talented apprentice.” He took her hand. “Turn your arm like this.” He tied the cord around her upper arm and picked up a syringe. “Make a fist. Good.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The needle slipped into a vein. She watched the dark red blood bubble into the syringe. “Witches practice deception, Phousita. They feed on hope and ignorance. Even the old woman, with her dried spiders and herbs, never cast a decent spell in her life.” He withdrew the needle and turned to his diagnostic kit.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita stared after him in utter confusion. “But a witch poisoned me when I was a child,” she said. “Only you could break the spell. And a witch transformed Arif into a clown.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“No,” he said, his back to her as he worked at the kit. “You were poisoned by a Maker, a tiny machine that tampered with your metabolism. Arif was poisoned by a different kind of Maker, one that wrote out a new genetic program for his face.” He sighed and turned around. “Never mind how it works. Just believe that there’s no magic involved. The witches in the marketplace don’t know any more about magic than you do. They just know the black market address where a good chemist can be reached—</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Ah, I’m sorry. Of course you don’t understand.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She bowed her head. “I’m stupid, </span><span class="none2">tuan.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	“No you’re not, Phousita. You’ve just never had a chance to learn.” The diagnostic kit chimed. He studied it, a frown on his face. “Have you had any more symptoms besides the hunger?”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Yes, <span class="none2">tuan,” </span><span class="none">she insisted. “I see many things I never saw before. The old woman visits me now. I </span><span class="none2">know </span><span class="none">things.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You’ve been infected with a Maker,” he said, as if he hadn’t heard her answer. “It’s very elusive. I haven’t been able to determine its structure yet.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I know what it is.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Now, now. We don’t </span><span class="none2">know </span><span class="none">that it’s plague.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“It’s not plague, </span><span class="none2">tuan. </span><span class="none">It’s the spirit of an evil sorcerer.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He sighed. Putting down the diagnostic kit, he turned to her, his arms crossed over his chest. “We’ll find a cure.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She shrugged. She didn’t want a cure. “There are some things </span><span class="none2">you </span><span class="none">don’t understand, </span><span class="none2">tuan, </span><span class="none">because you’re not from the city. You’re from the Commonwealth.” Her lips parted in dismay as she realized, </span><span class="none2">“You used to be a cop!”</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	Anger darkened Zeke’s face like a cloud across the moon. Phousita felt the cold draft of his bitterness, his fury, his venerable sense of betrayal. She’d offended him! Horrified, she bowed her head, hunched her shoulders, threw her hands before her face to hide her shame. “Forgive me, <span class="none2">tuan</span><span class="none">!” she sobbed. “Forgive me! I have a stupid mouth. I don’t know what I say—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A harsh buzzer interrupted her. She jumped, her heart pounding.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Someone’s tampering with the front door,” the doctor growled. He turned to the TV.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita followed his gaze and hissed. </span><span class="none2">“Police!”</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	An officer wearing the black uniform of the Commonwealth Police pounded on the door with the flat of his hand. Two huge hunting dogs stood panting behind him. Phousita whimpered and began backing toward the door.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Don’t be afraid,” the doctor said. “They won’t hurt you.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“They <span class="none2">will</span><span class="none">!” she squealed. Zeke Choy was a great man, but there really were things he didn’t understand! Like the dogs. They were a sign of death; the old woman had said so. To see them twice in so short a time was a terrible omen.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Phousita!”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She hid her face from his fury. “Forgive me, </span><span class="none2">tuan. </span><span class="none">Forgive me. I will never disturb you a—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He grabbed her arm in a gesture so shockingly rude she almost cried out. “Is there something you’re not telling me?” he hissed, leaning over her. “Have you been working for the Commonwealth?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“No, no! Of course not, </span><span class="none2">tuan.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Who told you I was from the Commonwealth? Who told you I used to be a cop?”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“No one! I think—maybe you did?” She had only a vague notion of what the Commonwealth was: a magic place in an undefinable direction where food was so plentiful it could be fed to dogs and every child lived to grow up. <span class="none2">“Tuan, </span><span class="none">you must have told me.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“No! I’ve never mentioned it to anyone.” He stared at her, suspicion sharp in his eyes. “I won’t go back with them. Tell them that. I resigned and I’m not going to change my mind.” He pushed her away.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Tell who, </span><span class="none2">tuan</span><span class="none">?” she whispered, as she edged toward the door. Her hand touched it. It opened with a soft click. What could he be thinking? What work could she possibly do for the Commonwealth?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But he didn’t answer. He was looking at the TV again. On its screen she saw the officer bending over to examine the front door. One of the dogs had disappeared. “I have to go,” Zeke said. He started toward the front room.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Don’t go out there,” Phousita cried. “They’ll arrest you. Run away. Come with me. I can hide you.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Nobody can hide from the dogs once they have your scent. If they’re looking for you, Phousita, you might as well come with me.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She shook her head. Was he crazy? With one last backward glance she slipped out the door, into the street. Instantly, a hand clapped over her arm. She was yanked down behind some cardboard boxes stacked against the building. She started to scream but another hand fell like a clamp across her mouth. A voice hissed in her ear. </span><span class="none2">“Quiet, you stupid country girl!”</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	<span class="none2">Arif!</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	When she relaxed, he uncovered her mouth. “We’ve been burned out,” he growled. “The dogs came this morning and cleared out the warehouse before the ‘Surgence torched it. It’s all gone. There’s nothing left but charcoal.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	She sat for a moment, stunned. “The dogs were there? But they’re here now.” She twisted around to look at him. “Do they follow <span class="none2">you?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	His lip twisted. <span class="none2">“Nothing </span><span class="none">followed me. Maybe it’s Zeke Choy they’re after. Come on. Let’s go.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Obediently, she rose to her feet and followed him as he ducked into the steady stream of foot traffic moving through the crowded alley. The sun stood high overhead. Its heat steamed in her lungs and burned into her muscles. She trailed Arif, darting through the crowd with practiced ease. A side street opened. Arif followed it. A few vendors had spread mats at the base of stucco buildings. The scent of charcoal filled the air, and the music of a gamelan. Behind them Phousita heard startled cries. She turned to look. “The dog’s coming!” she cried. “Where can we hide?” She saw no shelter in this street, no open door.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Stay close!” Arif ordered. He cut through the crowd with the grace of a practiced thief. She started to follow, but a fat merchant cut her off. They collided. He cursed and swung at her, striking her across the face with the back of his hand. She stumbled back, hunched over and tasting blood. When she looked up, Arif was gone. Behind her, a woman was screaming. Phousita hesitated in confusion. Then she caught Arif’s scent, actually tasted it. It hung in the air, a thin, broken trail that blazed incandescent in her mind.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She plunged ahead, following it, picking it out of the thousand other scents of other people who’d passed through this street. At last the stucco buildings ended. A cross street ahead. She hurried past it, then stopped abruptly. The trail had disappeared. She backtracked. Swung her head. Caught the trace and cut right.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Phousita!” He waited for her, crouching behind the wheel of a dilapidated </span><span class="none2">becak </span><span class="none">while the driver fidgeted nervously. “You see that?” Arif pointed down the street. A truck rumbled toward them, its sides marked with faded government insignia. The funeral truck. When the destitute died, its crew gathered up their bodies and hauled them off. Phousita did not know where. “Follow me!” Arif cried.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	As the truck approached, he started cutting through traffic. The press of people parted slowly as it advanced. The truck driver sounded his horn at another </span><span class="none2">becak, </span><span class="none">but the bum had waited too long to get out of the way. The truck’s worn brakes engaged with a tremendous squeal. The two crewmen clinging to the back of the truck swung forward. One fell. The </span><span class="none2">becak </span><span class="none">driver cursed and pedaled his rig to the side.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif picked that moment to jump. He landed on the tiny platform occupied by the remaining crewman. Finding a handhold, he crouched down and reached back for Phousita, ignoring the curses, threats, and blows rained down on him from the crewman. Phousita scrambled up beside him. He took her elbow and shoved her, sending her tumbling into the loading bin. Then he turned like a snake on his tormentor. He struck, catching the man’s free hand in his. Phousita lay dazed in the bin, sickened by the stench. She stared up at him. He looked like a magic figure from a </span><span class="none2">wayang </span><span class="none">vid. He moved his wrist and a purse appeared in his hand, the straps neatly cut. Phousita stared at it. Where had it come from? The crewman stared at it too, then turned a questioning eye to Arif. Arif nodded. “Let us ride to the river,” he said. The man’s hand closed over the purse. He nodded in turn. Arif dropped into the bin beside Phousita just as the truck lurched forward.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“The dog comes,” Phousita moaned. “Smell it on the air?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif scowled at her. But he peered over the edge of the bin to survey the street. A moment later he dropped back down, cursing. “It’s at the crossroad.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“It’s following </span><span class="none2">you,” </span><span class="none">Phousita accused. “Your scent’s as bright as the sun! Anybody could pick it out. We have to change it.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Huh. This stink should cover us.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She shook her head. “Not hide it. That won’t work. We need to </span><span class="none2">change </span><span class="none">it. I must change too.” Her tongue darted out of her mouth, sampling his scent. His odor was a byproduct of the living processes of his body, the stamp of his metabolism. To change it much would destroy him. But the change needn’t be extraordinary. A subtle adjustment would confuse the pursuing beast and give them time to escape. Her tongue darted out again, then she leaned forward, pressing her mouth against his wide clown’s lips. He pulled away, startled. But the job was done. She lay back and closed her eyes.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Her body had a signature of its own, just as bright, just as unique as Arif’s scent trail. She reached into her cells, into the metabolic pathways that nurtured them. She made adjustments. At her command tiny hands pulled at the molecules, making subtle changes. Then the hands turned to one another, adjusting their own structure too.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She opened her eyes. Arif was watching her with a suspicious scowl. “We must bathe in the river,” she said. “When we have cleansed ourselves, the dogs will no longer know us.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif’s scowl deepened. “Are you a witch, Phousita?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She smiled. “Will we make it to the river?”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p></div></div></div></div></body></html>
