<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta name="generator" content="http://calibre-ebook.com"/>
    <title>Linda Nagata - Nanotech Succession 01</title>
    <meta name="author" content="The Bohr Maker"/>
    <meta name="creation-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta name="revision-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre1">
<div class="calibre1">
<div class="s"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none1">From the Cover</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none1">A THREAD OF HOPE</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko sprang up from the couch. “Fox, what are you working on?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox shook his head and waved his hand in dismissal. He took another two steps toward the door. But then he seemed to reconsider. He turned to face Nikko. “We may be able to code you into the biogenesis function,” he blurted out.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“The biogenesis function?” Nikko couldn’t keep the scorn out of his voice. “That’s no refuge. It’s a fantasy.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The biogenesis function was Fox’s pet project—a theoretical complex of assembly codes that would define every element of Summer House and its internal environment in a sequenced construction plan. Wrap the code in a packet of assembly Makers, drop it on an appropriate substrate, and—in theory at least—it would be possible to replicate the entire House.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	In theory.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“The biogenesis function is never going to exist, Fox. It’s too complex.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Its complexity can hide you,” Fox said softly, in a voice that betrayed his own uncertainty.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I don’t want to be a string of code! I want to be alive. I would do anything to stay alive.”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none">  </span></p></div></div></div></body></html>
