<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta name="generator" content="http://calibre-ebook.com"/>
    <title>Linda Nagata - Nanotech Succession 01</title>
    <meta name="author" content="The Bohr Maker"/>
    <meta name="creation-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta name="revision-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre1">
<div class="calibre1"><div class="s2"><h2 class="calibre4" id="calibre_pb_27">   <span class="none3">CHAPTER</span></h2><h2 class="calibre5"></h2></div><div class="calibre1"><div class="s3"><h3 class="calibre6"> <span class="none3">27</span></h3><h3 class="calibre6"></h3></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> </span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor approached consciousness gradually, first aware of himself, then more slowly, his surroundings. He found his gaze fixed on the curved wall of a transit bubble only a few centimeters away. He stared at it in confusion. How had he come to be in a transit bubble?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Lifting his head, he looked around. It was a large transit bubble, at least eight feet long. He lay on the floor. Fox sat cross-legged beside him. Tears stood in the old man’s eyes.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor stared at him a moment. He couldn’t say he was surprised to see Fox. Not intellectually, anyway. Phousita had told him they wanted him back. Still, he felt viscerally astounded. Emotionally confused. Not well grounded in reality anymore, he suspected.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Fox!” he blurted out, sitting up. “I never thought I’d—” But words failed him, so he simply spread his arms and they embraced. “I don’t know what’s real anymore, Fox. I’m so glad to be home.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He felt the old man stiffen a little. But then Fox tenderly stroked his head. That’s when Sandor noticed they’d forgotten the hair. His pate was as barren as the moon. The rest of his body, too, was smooth and hairless. His finger and toe nails were stumps. “They’ll grow out in time,” Fox assured him. “See?” He rubbed Sandor’s head again. “I can feel a hint of stubble already.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Where’s Phousita?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox’s momentary good humor vanished. “She’s nearby.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Is she all right?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox’s arms dropped from around Sandor. He backed off a little. “Not really. She’s withdrawn. She’s—” He frowned unhappily. “Truth is, she’s comatose. She’s been that way since she delivered your code. I don’t know why.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I do. Where is she, Dad?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Nearby.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You said that. What’s going on? Why are we in a transit bubble?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox sighed. “Well, the police are here, and we’re in hiding. Actually, the House is in revolt.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">“What?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Yes. Well, the cops guessed Nikko’s code was hidden in the biogenesis function. They’ve found it at last. Of course we knew they would, if they really started looking.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Have they erased him?”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“They want to erase the whole project.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Oh.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“We won’t allow it, of course.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“No?”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“The decision’s been made. The people seem to agree.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“I don’t understand, Fox.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Fox glanced away for a moment. He seemed mildly troubled, mildly pleased, like a father at the start of his wife’s labor. “We knew it had to happen sooner or later. This is a bit sooner than expected, but we’re ready just the same.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“The House is coming apart, Sandor. This is what the biogenesis function is all about. The House is already in the process of absorbing all interior structures. When that’s done, it’ll divide into a thousand propagules, little vehicles of life, each one capable of regenerating a new House once it latches onto an appropriate substrate.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Sandor blinked, astounded. Fox had never talked about this vision before. “And the people?” he asked, too stunned to disbelieve anything Fox said.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Fox smiled and nodded. “It didn’t sit well with a lot of the citizens to be reduced to code. You’ve been through that. Guess it’s a helpless feeling.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Sandor shrugged. He hadn’t done so well when he was corporeal either.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Well, that’s the general feeling anyway. So most of us will continue to exist in the tissue of the largest propagules.” He grinned. “Like legendary homunculi embedded in the ovaries of a fecund mother.” Sandor stared at him blankly. “Well,” he said with a shrug, “you were never much for biology. But the point is, there’ll be too many of us to police. That’s the beauty of it. The status quo will have to change.” Fox’s eyes shone as he spoke of it. But he sobered quickly. “The cops are hot on us, though. If that Kirstin Adair suspects what we’re doing, she could finish us with one missile.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“I’ve met her,” Sandor said. They were silent a moment. Finally, he thought to ask: “Did you get the Bohr Maker from Phousita?”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Fox shrugged. “We don’t need it. The House can do more than Bohr ever did. Much more.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Sandor looked at his father with a measure of suspicion. The cops had pursued Bohr’s Maker so relentlessly that he’d been forced to assume it was of stellar importance. How could Fox dismiss it so easily?</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Oh, I don’t dismiss it,” Fox explained when pressed. “The Bohr Maker, from what I’ve heard, is an amazing adaptation. But you see, the House represents a completely different solution to a similar problem: how to harness the powers of molecular technology. The House is an external solution. It can be used by great numbers of individuals as an external creative and computative organ, and because of its vast size, its complexity, and the sheer volume of resources it can command at a mature stage, it will always represent a superior solution to an internally contained modification such as the Bohr Maker. The limits imposed by the minute volume of a human body will always dictate a lower limit on creative and computational abilities.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“With the trade-off being individual freedom,” Sandor said.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Yes. That’s right. I’m a conservative old man. I don’t mind limits, so long as I impose them on myself. And I’m pretty typical of the population here.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Phousita wants to go back to Earth.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Does she?” Fox seemed mildly surprised. But then, he’d never been able to understand why anyone would want to go there.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“She’d be taking the Bohr Maker with her.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Yes. I suppose she would.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Sandor could almost feel the heat rising off Fox’s head as his fine brain mulled this bit of information. “You don’t object, do you?” Sandor pressed. “You’re not on the cops’ side in this?”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Fox looked startled. “No. Of course not. She can do what she likes with it. It’s her business. In fact, it could benefit—” He caught himself. His cheeks reddened.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“What, Dad?”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Sometimes I think I’ve run too many equations in my life,” he said. “Everything that enters my mind seems to emerge in terms of costs and benefits. I don’t intend it that way. It just happens. But I’ll say it outright. If Phousita takes Bohr’s Maker back to Earth, that’ll be one more distraction to pull the cops off our tails. And if she manages to keep her freedom and her life, then the status quo will have to change. Every new House that grows from the propagules will look hopelessly conservative next to the society she could create.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Will you help her, then?”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“I’ll take it up with the Board,” Fox said.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Sandor frowned at him. That was a Fox stock response.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Well, it shouldn’t be a problem convincing them,” Fox said defensively. “Assuming, of course, that any of us live.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	They were silent for a while. Then Sandor asked tentatively, “Dad? Nikko didn’t know any more about this than I did, right?”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Fox stared at his hands for several seconds. “Secrecy was so important,” he muttered. “Until a few days ago, only a handful of us knew.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Nikko never would have gone after Bohr’s Maker if you’d let him in on your plans. But you didn’t trust him, did you?”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Nikko had his own agenda. I—” His voice broke off. He bowed his head into a framework of fingers made clawlike by tension. “It wouldn’t have made any difference,” he muttered. “Nikko would have gone after the Bohr Maker anyway. He wanted to live. He didn’t want to be reduced to code. He went after the Bohr Maker—and he forced us to act.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Sandor found it hard to be angry. He’d paid in plenty for Nikko’s adventurism. But he’d found Phousita too. “Where is she?” he asked Fox.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	The old man nodded, his mood dark and heavy, as if he sensed he would soon lose his son again. “I’ll take you to her.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	She was stretched out on the floor of a transit bubble, in the comatose state Fox had described. Sandor kissed her and called her name until she smiled. A moment later her eyelids fluttered open.</p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita stretched and looked around, to find herself in an expanded transit bubble, one that was tall enough to stand in, long enough to walk five or six paces. Sandor gazed at her questioningly. She turned her hands palm up and shrugged. “You were right,” she said. “I have learned to move on.” The glands on her palms glistened in the cold blue light. She reached out to touch Sandor’s face, relishing the sense of his reality. Not everything had been left behind.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He pressed her palm against his cheek. “I heard you were under a long time. I’m so glad you came back.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“It was hard. Sandor? I want to go home.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I know. I told Fox. The House will help you.” He kissed her hand. “I’m going with you.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She smiled. She already knew that, but it was good to hear. “I’ve been exploring the House.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Then you know it’s coming apart. I can’t believe it. Fox never even hinted that anything like this was possible. I knew the biogenesis function was a way to replicate the House, but I never thought—Well, it’s my home. It’s been my home. And it’s about to tear itself apart. That’s staggering. It’s like I’m a ghost inside a dream world. Sometimes I wonder if any of this is real.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She closed her eyes and sighed. She could taste reality in every molecule that crossed the thresholds of her body. Sometimes, it was all too real.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“The funny thing is,” Sandor went on, “I’m not afraid. We can’t stop what’s happening. We just have to ride with it. I just wish Nikko was here.”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p></div></div></div></div></body></html>
