<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta name="generator" content="http://calibre-ebook.com"/>
    <title>Linda Nagata - Nanotech Succession 01</title>
    <meta name="author" content="The Bohr Maker"/>
    <meta name="creation-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta name="revision-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre1">
<div class="calibre1"><div class="s2"><h2 class="calibre4" id="calibre_pb_28">   <span class="none3">CHAPTER</span></h2><h2 class="calibre5"></h2></div><div class="calibre1"><div class="s3"><h3 class="calibre6"> <span class="none3">28</span></h3><h3 class="calibre6"></h3></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> </span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Something big is happening in there.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin stood on the bridge of the </span><span class="none2">Galapagos, </span><span class="none">studying the young officer who’d made this statement. He’d just returned from the city—or what was left of it—and fear showed in his eyes. “The House is dissolving. The forest is dying. Things are just… </span><span class="none2">vanishing, </span><span class="none">being sucked up by the walls.” His eyes were wide with horror. “Even the people. We encountered a group of children. We tried to get them to come with us, but they ran away. I know we should have let them go, but—</span><span class="none2">everything’s falling apart in there</span><span class="none">! So we pursued. They couldn’t outrun us. So they just stepped into a wall and disappeared.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He shook his head in grim disbelief. “They never came out again. The wall hardened behind them. Then the passage started to close. The walls pressed in on us from both sides. So we fled. We ran. And the corridor sealed behind us.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Everything was changing. Connecting passages that had existed only a few minutes before were gone. We didn’t know where we were, or where we were going. But it was obvious that we were being driven, with no option to turn, or go back, until finally we entered a huge cavern. Half a klick high but no more than a hundred meters wide. We met some other patrols there. Their experiences were the same as ours.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Together we moved through the hallway. Tremors shook the floor every few minutes. A few civilians began to show up, looking dazed and scared. None of them were corporate citizens. They were all here on visas. We escorted them. Not that we could have offered them any protection against the sheer power of this place. It could have closed in at any time and crushed us so easily. But it let us go. I’m convinced of that. We were being forced out.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“The hallway eventually brought us to the elevator. It was the first recognizable feature we’d seen in hours. And it was working, praise the Holy Mother. We came up the tether without further incident.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	His breathing was harsh and labored, and he paused in an obvious effort to gather his composure. When he spoke again, his gaze fixed on Kirstin. “I don’t know if we can go back. This place doesn’t want us. It’s like a monster, out of control.”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin retired for an hour to a small cabin aboard the </span><span class="none2">Galapagos. </span><span class="none">She turned the lights down low and sat in darkness for several minutes, considering her career. It would be over if she could not somehow retrieve Summer House from the brink. She shuddered to think of the political consequences if she were forced to use the nuclear missiles carried in the armory of </span><span class="none2">Galapagos. </span><span class="none">But use them she would, if it came to that.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Ongoing footage of the debacle on Summer House was still being transmitted to the newsfeeds, though the pictures seemed to be coming from robotic cameras now. She watched them for a while, trying to understand what was happening. Why had the House reacted so powerfully when wrongdoing had to be limited to only a few, albeit powerful, corporate citizens? Summer House was a graduated democracy. It made no sense.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Unless … could one of her assumptions be wrong?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Her heart began to beat in powerful strokes. She’d come here in pursuit of the Bohr Maker. It had eluded her for months. But in the end it had been destroyed by the </span><span class="none2">Galapagos’s </span><span class="none">missiles, in a firestorm worse than the one that had consumed Leander … or at least that’s what she’d been told. She’d hadn’t checked the records herself. Maybe it was time she did.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She called up the video record of the missile strike on a wall display, then frowned at the lousy image. The police cruiser had been standing off nearly a hundred kilometers when it fired at the absurd little vessel. The magnification resulted in a slightly blurred image. And the passengers were in shadow. Still, she could make out two tiny figures floating at the end of a tether. And there was no mistaking Nikko’s spidery frame.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The </span><span class="none2">Galapagos </span><span class="none">fired its missile. It was moving almost too fast to follow. But obviously Nikko knew it was coming. Kirstin watched him bound to the prow of the ship, detach the tether that held his two human companions, and fling them toward the station’s arc. She watched him jump.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Seconds later, the missile reached its target and the little ship evaporated in a fireball. But the passengers were already far away. The video didn’t follow them as they fell toward the station.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin couldn’t be certain they’d made contact. But a chill ran through her just the same. In a sudden gestalt vision she imagined the Maker taking up residence in the organic neural network that controlled the House. If the Maker could transform a pathetic prostitute like Phousita into a witch capable of eluding the best efforts of the police to capture her, what could it do in the vastly larger and more complex neural system that regulated the physiology of Summer House? What better explanation for the sudden, disastrous demise of a thriving corporate entity?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But had it really happened?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She might never know. Every effort by her staff to penetrate the shield of defensive Makers that guarded the hidden portions of the House had failed. She could make no detailed assessment of the situation. But the mere possibility that the Maker had colonized the neural structure of the House was enough to ignite in her an instinctive terror.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Her thoughts turned to the remaining missiles in the </span><span class="none2">Galapagos’s </span><span class="none">armory. </span><span class="none2">Nobody </span><span class="none">would be able to tell truth from rumor if the House were to vanish in a fireball of its own.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">Sterilization </span><span class="none">was a word the police rarely used. It didn’t sit well with the civilian population. But they understood its necessity.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin viewed the video once again, watching Nikko with a sense of grudging admiration as he deliberately dove into the abyss. Who else but Nikko would arrange for ten thousand innocent lives to share his funeral pyre?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But Kirstin was moving ahead of the game. It was not too late. She might still be able to convince some corporate citizens to abandon their lost cause before the police strike. She could at least try. Such a show of magnanimity under extreme circumstances would be good for her image. The Congressional inquiry that would inevitably follow this affair would be blunted if she could show she’d taken every possible step to save lives, if she could show that in the end the citizens of Summer House had decided their own fate.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She summoned the commander of the </span><span class="none2">Galapagos </span><span class="none">to her quarters. Beryl arrived, looking tired, worried, and older than a Commonwealth citizen should. Kirstin had felt that way only a few minutes ago. Now that she understood the situation, though, her vitality had returned. She looked forward to the next few hours. “Recall any of our people who are still in the city,” she instructed. “The </span><span class="none2">Galapagos </span><span class="none">will disengage from the docks within half an hour. You will take the ship at least a hundred klicks off the city and you will wait there, with your remaining complement of missiles poised to fire.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“What have you found?” Beryl asked, her expression carefully neutral. But Kirstin could almost scent her sudden fear.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I have evidence that the House neural systems have been colonized by Bohr’s Maker.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	In reality the “evidence” was no more than speculation, but she needed to be sure of Beryl’s unhesitating cooperation. It was not every day a police commander was asked to destroy an entire city.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Her old friend was quick to point this out. “If you’re considering sterilization, we’re required to seek Congressional approval.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I’ve already applied informally, and the response was favorable. But you know how slow the committee works. We might not be able to wait for an official sanction. There may be no time.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nobody knew the committee better than Kirstin. The Congressional representatives would never have the spine to order the necessary job done. After the fact, though—that was different. When the deed was complete and there was nothing left to fear, the committee would cooperate. It would be in their interests to shore up the good name of the Commonwealth Police.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Still, the commander hesitated.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	So Kirstin leaned. “Even if the formal approval fails to come through, we are first sworn to protect the Commonwealth, and only secondly, to uphold the letter of the law. If you believe as I do, you won’t hesitate to risk a reprimand in the interest of the state.” For a moment she thought she’d been too heavy-handed. But no. The circumstance called for extreme professions of faith.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“All right,” Beryl said slowly. “You’ll be with me anyway. You can give the final order.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin charmed her with a slight, indulgent smile. “I’ll give the final order,” she agreed. “But I won’t be with you. I’m going down into the city to see if I can persuade any of the inhabitants to come out. We’ll hold off as long as we can. There are thousands of human lives at stake, after all.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Beryl’s brow furrowed with doubt. “But we’ve tried persuasion. No one’s responded. You could be trapped in the House.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin shrugged. “This corpse is disposable. I’ll stay until we’re forced to launch the missiles. Then I’ll upload a ghost.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Her old friend nodded slowly. “As you say then, Kirstin. But damn, this is a bad end.”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p></div></div></div></div></body></html>
