<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta name="generator" content="http://calibre-ebook.com"/>
    <title>Linda Nagata - Nanotech Succession 01</title>
    <meta name="author" content="The Bohr Maker"/>
    <meta name="creation-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta name="revision-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre1">
<div class="calibre1"><div class="s2"><h2 class="calibre4" id="calibre_pb_29">   <span class="none3">CHAPTER</span></h2><h2 class="calibre5"></h2></div><div class="calibre1"><div class="s3"><h3 class="calibre6"> <span class="none3">29</span></h3><h3 class="calibre6"></h3></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> </span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko had been taken in by dreamtime for a long, uncertain era. The House nourished him, and he began to heal, at least partially. He sensed Phousita’s presence in the darkness, a fleeting awareness, no more, nothing he could pin down. He dreamed of Sandor. Strength seemed to be returning to his fingers, his hands, his arms. Or maybe that was just part of the dream.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Then change set upon him. He felt the darkness grip him with a determined tide. He began to see occasional lights: nebulous blurs of electric blue that flowed past him, always too far away to touch.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Then ahead, the darkness finally began to ease. Blackness became a dark gray that rapidly lightened to blazing white. Firm ground congealed under his feet. The tide pulled away from him. His kisheer shivered and peeled away from his face. He felt the light touch of air against his skin. He breathed it in: it was supercold and terribly thin. Immediately, he knew that something was wrong.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He tried to look. The light wounded his dark-adjusted eyes. He squinted against it, to see where he’d emerged.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Astonishment took him. He gazed at a vast, utterly empty hall. The nearest walls stood at least fifty meters apart. They rose in parallel, like the faces of a deep chasm, until far overhead they finally curved together to form a rounded ceiling. Even in the easy gravity of Summer House, he didn’t think he could throw a ball far enough to touch that roof.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The hallway was long too. He couldn’t see either end. It curved away at an impressive distance on both sides.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The walls were smooth, a fleshy brown surface marbled with black. Light came from oblong, glowing panels set high overhead. His eyes were adjusting now, and he realized the brightness he perceived was only an artifact of his night-adjusted vision. The empty hallway was dimly lit. And even as he watched, the level of light seemed to slowly fade.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	His camera snaked over his shoulder, dutifully recording the scene. Nikko’s gaze fixed on it while his heart boomed in deep, frightened beats. There was something familiar about this hallway.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Then he remembered. It was only a few days ago. He’d seen a holographic simulation running in Fox’s apartment. The House had consumed all its inner structures while dividing itself into hundreds of discrete cells designed to part along the open channels that separated them.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He felt as if he’d been transported into that simulation. This hall was a channel between groups of cells. When the process reached its conclusion, this great chasm would peel open to the void.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He spun around and threw himself at the wall from which he’d just emerged. No longer was it soft and pliant. The camera reared back, recording his hands as they scrabbled in panic at the rapidly hardening surface. He pounded his fists against the wall, leaving small indentations. “Take me back!” he screamed. “Take me back.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	His voiced echoed through the cavern, startling him.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Fox!” he cried. “Hear me.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But how could Fox hear him? Nikko had no atrium. His voice could not get beyond these walls.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He stood, shoulders heaving. He’d become an invisible man. Without the atrium, Summer House could not recognize him. And if Summer House didn’t know him, then Fox wouldn’t even be aware that he was here….</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A sense of estrangement washed over him. He felt as if the pleniverse had cast him out, locked him somewhere outside itself in dreadful isolation.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The camera slowly drifted across his field of view. He glanced up at it. The lens was focused on him. The Dull Intelligence must have tired of the view of the darkening hall. He stared at it, an icy fury running through his veins. His hands twitched, blue fingers knocking against his thigh as he fought an irrational urge to tear the tentacle out of the camera body!</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Suddenly, his hands went still.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The camera. The camera could send transmissions into the House plexus … if the plexus still existed … could he communicate with Fox?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He reached for the chest panel. He couldn’t remember Fox’s address. That had been lost along with the atrium. It didn’t matter. He coded the transmission emergency priority, continuous feed. The camera hovered in front of his face, sending his image out in real time to whoever chose to receive it. “Fox,” he said. “It’s Nikko.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A tremor shook the great hall. The floor buckled under his feet, tossing him to his hands and knees. The walls groaned. The ground subsided. Or perhaps the ceiling rose, he couldn’t be sure, but the lofty space seemed to grow even taller.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The walls were changing too. The black marbling seemed to be expanding. He touched a vein of it on the wall behind him. It was smooth and very, very hard.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	In the simulation it had taken only a few seconds before the House was ready to divide. In reality he should have more time. But how much? Surely when the wall became all black, fission would not be far behind.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Startled, Phousita opened her eyes. “Nikko?” she whispered. Sandor gazed at her, his eyes wide. He’d picked up the transmission too.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“It’s got to be a fake!” he hissed. His gaze was focused inward, to the image of Nikko. “Some trick of the cops to lure us out.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But Phousita wasn’t sure. As she studied the image of Nikko in her own atrium, she felt touched by a sense of déjà vu, as if on some level she’d already </span><span class="none2">known </span><span class="none">of Nikko’s presence in the House. She reexamined her memories, and discovered a packet of data that had come to her sometime during her sleep. It described Nikko. There was no doubt. He’d been adrift in the basal tissue of Summer House while his injuries and debilities gradually healed. She looked at Sandor’s anxious face. “The House doesn’t recognize him.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Summer House!” Sandor commanded, sending his words out through his atrium. “Locate corporate citizen Nikko Jiang-Tibayan.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The response arrived in both their atriums simultaneously. Nikko Jiang-Tibayan was not resident at the House.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Then who is the being who shares his pattern?” Phousita asked softly.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The House couldn’t answer.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“He has no atrium,” Phousita said. “The House doesn’t know him.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Then he’s been here all the time? We have to get to him!”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita shook her head. “It’s too late,” she realized. “The walls have gone up.”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko spoke to the camera for several minutes, hoping for some kind of response, some kind of acknowledgment. Hoping that the walls would dissolve and take him in again. It didn’t happen. After a while he waved the camera lens away and turned his mind to his predicament.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Perhaps there was something about this section of the chasmal hall that prevented him from contacting the plexus. He should move down the corridor. Sooner or later he had to come in range of someone’s atrium. There had to be people still awake, still aware. The whole city could not have gone dormant yet.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The moment the thought formed, he sprang away, loping down the hall, not in a panicked sprint, but rather, at a fast, determined pace, his gaze scanning the walls for any discontinuities as he moved around the hall’s slow curve. He continued to transmit, muttering a monologue, still composing his documentary:</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“The dim illumination is fading. The light tubes are dissolving, being taken in by the obsidian walls. If you can hear this transmission, please alert Fox. This is Nikko Jiang-Tibayan. I’m alive, and trapped in a hall. Love and Nature! The light’s gone!” He stumbled, then caught himself. Picking up his pace again, he bounded forward in the dark.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I can’t see a thing. It’s pitch-black in here. The only sound is the rhythm of my footfalls, the harsh wash of my breath. The air seems to be thinning rapidly. Is that good? It means the walls here are still active. Can anyone hear me? Find me, please. This is Nikko Jiang-Tibayan.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	His throat burned as the fiercely cold air dragged in and out of his lungs. His kisheer began to lap up around his cheeks. The low O</span><sub class="calibre7"><span class="none">2</span></sub><span class="none"> had confused its sensory system, so that it hovered uncertainly, ready to engage.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I’m running blind. Doesn’t this corridor have an end? Doesn’t anybody hear me? Am I alone?” He stumbled, shaken by the possibility. Suddenly, he felt like the last man on the last day of the Universe. “Where have you all gone?” he shouted into the darkness. “Why have you forgotten me? This is Nikko Jiang-Tibayan. Respond if you can.”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor called Fox. Fox assembled a quorum of corporate officers. Everybody’s atrium was tuned to Nikko’s ongoing broadcast as they huddled together in a cramped transit bubble and debated what to do.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“It’s got to be a trick of the cops,” insisted Caroline Bukey, the corporate vice president in charge of security. Her choleric temper was reflected in the grim set of her face. “We have no corroboration that this transmission is actually originating with Nikko.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You’re not listening!” Sandor snapped. “Phousita has already provided independent corroboration.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Bukey turned a skeptical gaze on Phousita. “After the fact,” she said. “And I’d like to point out that she’s not a corporate member. We don’t know what her motives are.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Nikko is alive,” Sandor said, barely reigning in his temper. “Phousita wouldn’t lie.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“But it seems impossible,” Fox said. “If Nikko had survived, the House would have reported it.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“The House can’t recognize him without his atrium, Dad! And his atrium was annihilated. He didn’t have an ID chip because he never traveled. </span><span class="none2">He has no identity, </span><span class="none">so the House evicted him along with every other noncitizen. We can’t even talk to him.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“He’s in one of the interstitial halls,” Phousita said.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox shuddered in open horror. “Those halls are the seams along which the House will fission.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“We have to retrieve him, Dad. You know it’s him. Just listen to his monologue. It’s pure Nikko. The cops couldn’t fake that.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox looked doubtful; scared. “Where exactly is he?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Moving parallel to cells 412 to 433, Dad.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox blanched. “Love and Nature,” he whispered. “There are nearly three hundred walls between this cell and Nikko. It’d take hours to get through them.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“And we have only twenty-three minutes,” Bukey said.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“We don’t have to go through them,” Sandor insisted. “All we have to do is open one of the walls and let him through.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But Fox was shaking his head. “It’s not that simple. Those cells are all tiny, uninhabited units. There’s nobody there! Their interior mass has been reduced to undifferentiated matrix, and there isn’t enough of it to support a corporeal person anyway. Even their industrial Makers are dormant.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor frowned. His head moved slowly back and forth as he sought a solution. “But all noncitizens were evacuated in the vicinity of the primary elevator column, right? Can Nikko access the elevator? Is it still operational? Could it take him to a habitable cell?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Caroline Bukey held up a hand for quiet. Her habitually grim expression had deepened to a forbidding solemnity. “The House plexus reports that </span><span class="none2">Galapagos </span><span class="none">has begun to disengage from the station,” she announced. A stir went through the small assembly. “Time is critical. Do any of you doubt what the ultimate solution will be?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You want to abandon Nikko, don’t you?” Sandor demanded.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Bukey looked at him as if he were a petulant child. “We don’t even know if it </span><span class="none2">is </span><span class="none">Nikko.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I believe it is,” Fox said. He caught Bukey’s eye. An inaudible exchange seemed to pass between them. “Clear?” Fox asked tentatively.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Bukey scowled and nodded. “Command priority one,” she said aloud, though her unfocused gaze made it clear she was speaking through her atrium. “Modify fission procedure: delay disassembly of prime elevator column until further notice. Restore any sections which may have already been disrupted.” Her cold gaze fixed on Sandor. “There’s a cluster of large cells near the bottom of the elevator column. They’re not inhabited, but we will modify the programming of their industrial Makers to develop a life-sustaining habitat—if we can get him down to that level.”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin had half expected the elevator to be inoperable. But it was still functioning when she disembarked from </span><span class="none2">Galapagos. </span><span class="none">She took two police dogs with her, each one inhabited by the ghost of a police officer. Their artificial eyes would record everything that happened below. Since the House plexus would no longer relay police communications, she strung a land line along her route, an ultra thin cable that would carry her transmissions past the radio-opaque walls of the House. The line was wired to one of the dogs. If communications failed, </span><span class="none2">Galapagos </span><span class="none">was under orders to fire without hesitation.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin entered an elevator car and descended the tether, letting the land line unreel with fiery speed through the shaft. She emerged from the elevator near what had once been the corporate offices, only to find herself in total darkness. Switching on the headlamp of her environment suit, she keyed its broad beam up to a brilliant maximum.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The light ran out in a semicircle around her, illuminating what appeared to be an immense hallway. The nearest walls were perhaps a hundred meters apart. Like the floor, they appeared to be smooth, hard, and dark as obsidian.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She tilted her head back and the beam swept overhead. The light rays grew diffuse with distance. She couldn’t make out any ceiling. Slight tremors testified to the hallway’s unstable situation.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The dogs whined nervously. “God, it looks like the end of the world in here,” one of the ghosts said through Kirstin’s atrium. One dog snuffled at scents wafting from the hallway beyond the reach of the light. The other appeared to listen. Kirstin couldn’t hear anything beyond her own ragged breathing. Her lungs felt touched with fire. The air must be very thin. Certainly, it was supercold.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Can you pick up anything?” she asked the ghosts.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Nah,” the same voice said. “It’s a blank out there. Seasonally empty. Spookiest thing I’ve ever sensed, like every molecule more complex than carbon dioxide has been sucked right out.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The second cop made no comment.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I’m going to try making contact,” Kirstin announced. </span><span class="none2">But with whom? </span><span class="none">Was there really anybody left alive? She adjusted her atrium, then sent a call through to the House. “This is Chief of Police Kirstin Adair, requesting communications with the corporate offices of Summer House.” She received no answer. Similar hails on different bands brought no more success.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	They set off down the hall, but there was nothing to be seen besides the radio-opaque black walls. Several minutes later they reached the hall’s end: a vertical obsidian wall that confounded her search for a door, a passage. “Those poor, dumb bastards,” the same ghost muttered. “They’ve really done themselves in this time.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	They jogged back to the elevator, reeling in the land line as they went.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin explored another level, another hallway as vast and empty as the first. Her attempts at communication, both with the House and its inhabitants (did they still own a corporeal existence?) continued to produce no results.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	As she stepped onto the brightly lit elevator car once again, the dogs at her heels, she began to regret the ploy of magnanimity that had brought her here. She was achieving nothing. And the prospect of facing her own death no longer seemed quite so easy, now that the time was drawing near. It was true that her ghost would escape, her persona would survive the nuclear immolation she planned. But another copy of her consciousness would be trapped here, forced to face the blast.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	For a moment she considered recalling the </span><span class="none2">Galapagos. </span><span class="none">But that would be the equivalent of backing down. Bad PR for sure, and after the city blew, she was going to need all the public support she could muster to keep her job. So she’d just have to stick it out.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But there was no reason to explore every empty hallway. Beryl was reporting that the blue oceans that had once sheltered Summer House from cosmic radiation had blackened, congealing into the same dark material that walled the interior of the House. It was an eerie, unsettling end to a great city. What was under construction here she couldn’t guess, but she sensed the transformation was nearing completion. She would have to act soon, if she wanted to be sure of annihilating this dangerous little world, so frighteningly out of control.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But she had her own role to finish first, that of the magnanimous police chief, striving through the last moment to rescue the doomed citizens of Summer House.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She scratched one of the dogs behind its ear. “Let’s go to the lowest level,” she said. If the situation there echoed what she’d already seen, there would be no point in further delay. She would order Beryl to carry out the strike.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	They’d just stepped aboard the car when the same ghost spoke up again. “I’m picking up some untranslatable radio activity.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin scowled. She didn’t really want to find anybody. She didn’t want a reason to hold off on the strike. “Someone trying to contact us?” she asked, suspicion in her voice.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Probably not,” the ghost admitted. “Just a leak from the plexus, maybe.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The land line glistened like a spider’s thread where it hung down from the elevator shaft, an unblinking witness to the play of events. Kirstin knew her role in the drama. “Let’s go lower,” she said, in a deliberate effort to please her invisible audience. “If we change position, we may get a better signal.”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox, Sandor, Phousita, and even Caroline Bukey listened in silence to Nikko’s ongoing transmission. Fox and Sandor were grinning. Phousita felt her own heart lighten despite Nikko’s apocalyptic mood. Nikko was jogging toward the elevator! He was going to find his own way out. In a few minutes he would step aboard the car and be whisked away to safety.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Suddenly, Phousita stiffened. Like the others, she was continuously monitoring House progress reports. One had caught her attention.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Did you hear that?” she whispered to Sandor. “There are police dogs in the city.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor smiled absently. “That’s good,” he said. “If the cops are still trying to root us out, then they’ll hold off their assault a bit longer.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But Phousita shivered. In the Spill, police dogs had always been a harbinger of death. She remembered terrible fire; lost children. “It’s a bad sign,” she whispered.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor didn’t seem to hear her. She raised her hands and gazed at the sparkling glands there. She’d learned the dogs’ pattern on that horrible day. She’d sent them into sleep there on the edge of the conflagration. Almost instinctively, she began weaving the spell again.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Then she hesitated. How could the tiny servants pass through nearly three hundred impenetrable walls?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko’s breath was whistling in and out of his lungs now, raking his throat with painfully cold fingers. It was getting harder to speak. But up ahead: his gaze fixed on something.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“What’s … that?” he gasped. “A tiny green light… in the darkness.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	His eyes had played tricks on him before, reacting antagonistically to sensory deprivation by filling the dark with false colors. But this light did not diffuse or float away. It held steady, a small green point that gradually resolved into a numbered column. He approached it with a sense of wonder and laid his fingers upon it, forgetting, for the moment, to speak. He could feel a vibration in the wall surrounding the panel. The elevator shaft! he realized. And it was working.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The camera peered over his shoulder, reminding him of its presence. “You see this, Fox?” he shouted. “I’m on the twenty-first level. By the elevator shaft. Come get me, Fox. Send somebody for me.”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	In the descending elevator car, Kirstin caught Nikko’s transmission, static free. She slapped the stop button and chuckled incredulously. “Nikko?” she asked aloud, studying the dim picture that came in over her atrium.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“That transmission originated only a few hundred meters away,” the ghost cop announced.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Sure,” Kirstin said. “On the twenty-first level.” She punched the revised destination into the panel and the car began to ascend.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“The cop!” Phousita cried. “The cop is tracking Nikko. Look! Look at the House reports. She’s gone to meet him.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Her frantic gaze swept round the small group in the transit bubble. Fox looked stunned. Sandor confused. Caroline Bukey had turned a ghastly pale color.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Nikko knows enough to recognize the biogenesis function, doesn’t he?” Bukey asked.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“He won’t give us away,” Fox said.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Maybe this is good,” Bukey muttered. “He can engage the cops’ attention while the House completes fission.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You can’t sacrifice him,” Sandor said. “You can’t.”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p></div></div></div></div></body></html>
