<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta name="generator" content="http://calibre-ebook.com"/>
    <title>Linda Nagata - Nanotech Succession 01</title>
    <meta name="author" content="The Bohr Maker"/>
    <meta name="creation-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta name="revision-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre1">
<div class="calibre1"><div class="s2"><h2 class="calibre4" id="calibre_pb_8">   <span class="none3">CHAPTER</span></h2><h2 class="calibre5"></h2></div><div class="calibre1"><div class="s3"><h3 class="calibre6"> <span class="none3">8</span></h3><h3 class="calibre6"></h3></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> </span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor Jiang-Tibayan stared unhappily out the window of a Summer House corporate helicopter, as it automatically carried him on a preprogrammed course across the Strait of Malacca. The helicopter banked right, then left, flying around (never directly over) one of the hundreds of old oil-drilling platforms that studded this section of ocean. The rigs had been towed to Malacca, anchored firmly on the bottom and then christened, each one a separate nation.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor was supposed to be working as an apprentice in a project to install a security system for the newest member of the community, a platform that would become regional headquarters for Summer House. But yesterday he’d been summoned to Castle. Nobody seemed to know why. He’d protested the order, sure that it was another one of Dad’s schemes to get him off-Earth. But his boss told him to go anyway.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox had exaggerated ideas about the dangers of working in the Free Trade Zone. Things were all right here for the House. The cops left them alone and the locals welcomed their business. The ecoterrorists were a bit of a problem, but that’s what security was for. Sandor liked it Earthside. He’d been to Australia and Tonga and he liked what he saw. He’d even talked to his boss about applying for a permanent position.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He sat up a little straighter as the helicopter crossed the shoreline, continuing inland over an agricultural plain. He could just make out the city in the distance—a maze of white buildings huddled under a dark ceiling of rain clouds. The city was in the Free Trade Zone … not part of the Commonwealth. His boss wouldn’t let him take weekends here, so he’d only seen the airport.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	As the helicopter descended, clouds veiled the fierce gaze of the mid-morning sun. Soon rain began to run in rivulets across the window. Moments later the helicopter landed, its hull rattling under a fierce tropical deluge. A hangar extended out from the terminal to cover the helicopter, and the roar of the rain suddenly ceased. Sandor disembarked, then boarded a slidewalk to the main building. It would be at least an hour and a half before his flight to India and he was already bored.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He decided to summon his resident ghost into existence. “Hey Nikko, wake up. Guess where we are.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The ghost crouched on his shoulder, a tiny humanoid figure encased in a smooth, blue, armored hide. It was House policy that apprentice corporate members be accompanied by a resident ghost at all times Earthside—an electronic babysitter to keep young minds out of trouble. Fox had wanted to issue one of his own ghosts to fill the position, but Sandor could guess how much fun that would be. So he’d begged Nikko to spare him a dedicated ghost.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Things had worked out. Sandor had been only a few months Earthside, but he’d already muled for Nikko four times, playing the role of a radical historian out of RedCam to get interviews Nikko swore he never could have gotten on his own. Sandor didn’t mind fronting for his brother; it was fun. Nikko knew the most interesting people.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Now Nikko’s gaze swept the terminal. “What are we doing here?” he asked. It had been a few days since Sandor had activated him.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“On the way to Castle,” Sandor explained. “Somebody up top wants me to run up the Highway, but they won’t say why.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Layover?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Ninety minutes.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko chuckled. It was an odd sound, coming from a face that never smiled. “Want to take a walk around the terminal?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor grinned. His boss wouldn’t let him take weekends outside the Commonwealth, so all he’d seen of Sunda so far was sky and sea. But he could count on Nikko to overlook the rules. “Let’s drop into the city. I want to know why this place is off-limits.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko’s head swiveled to gaze at him, the tiny black lenses that covered his eyes glittering in the overhead lights. “You’re kidding.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Uh-uh. Let’s go.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Have you got a bodyguard?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Oh, come on, Nikko.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But to Sandor’s disbelief, Nikko was shaking his tiny head. “You want to see the city? Then hire a mule and ghost it.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“It’s not the same!” he said, outraged.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“And a good thing too. It’s an ugly neighborhood out there, Sandy.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">“Nikko!”</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Sandor,” he corrected automatically. “Show me you’re not dumb, and stay inside the terminal with your own kind.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“My own <span class="none2">what?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Look at yourself.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“I don’t have to. I know what I look like.” A lean eighteen-year-old, blond hair, milk-white skin, blue eyes.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“You’re a walking jewelry store: earrings, cheek stones, coiffure pendants, rings, bracelets, necklace, even a chain for your boot. Leather boot?”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Synthetic. So’s the silk. Anybody could get it. Big deal.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“That’s right,” Nikko said. “Big enough to kill for. This isn’t the Commonwealth.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“It’s different, I know. That’s why I want to see it.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“You wouldn’t get a block without being assaulted. Uh-oh. Police dog. Look innocent.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Startled, Sandor stumbled off the end of the slidewalk. The animal sat on its haunches, studying the column of arriving passengers with a blank-eyed stare.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“What’s it doing here?” Sandor hissed. He scowled at the ugly animal. “I thought they were confined to the Commonwealth.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“They run wherever the police have an interest. In answer to your first question, it’s checking chips.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Sandor hefted the bag as he walked around the motionless animal. A patch of skin on his forearm hid the ID chip that identified him to any police officer who cared to know. It functioned as a passport for travel between the sovereignties. Usually the police checked chips at Gates. Sandor guessed they had no authority to set up a Gate here. “So I’m clean enough, right?’ he asked Nikko.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Why? Guilty conscience?” Nikko laughed again. The House worked at the edge of molecular law, and occasionally they pushed the technology beyond police tolerance. Sometimes their client corporations protected them; sometimes not. Sometimes the cops reversed a decision on a previously accepted molecule. Sandor’s back seemed to tingle as he walked away from the dog, but it made no move to intercept him.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Love and Nature, Nikko. <span class="none2">What’s that?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	He stopped to stare at a trio of human-creatures squatting against the wall of the concourse. One of them seemed to have melted. His flesh hung down in black, decomposing wattles beneath his throat while the skin on his hairless head had grown so thin it had become translucent and Sandor could see patches of white bone shining through it. The sockets of the pitiful creature’s eyes had stretched halfway down his cheeks. Dried mucus clung to his bloodshot orbs. His nose wobbled like a bit of dead flesh at the level of his lips. His partner suffered the same afflictions, though her state seemed less advanced. The stench was horrific. A child huddled with them, a little girl, healthy-seeming, except for a crusty-looking growth of dull blue enamel on her stunted forearms that was nothing like the smooth blue enamel platelets of Nikko’s skin. Nikko was strong and beautiful in the way of natural things. These … these <span class="none2">people </span><span class="none">(they were a family group, he realized, father, mother, daughter), how ugly and unfunctional and unnatural they seemed. The crowd flowed around him as he stared. A few individuals turned uncomfortable eyes on him, but no one else dared to look at the plaintive creatures waiting mournfully beside empty bowls.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor had never seen anything like it. Why would anyone accept such hideous, nonfunctional modifications? “What are they, Nikko?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Victims of a cruel joke,” he growled. “Someone cast a spell on them.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“What?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“They’ve been scarred by uncataloged Makers.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Oh.” Sandor frowned. “Involuntarily?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Sandy, you are </span><span class="none2">so </span><span class="none">green.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor shook his head. He’d heard of such things before, but—“This is Sunda. Makers are illegal here.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko snorted. “Come on, little brother. You know better than that. Makers are everywhere. The only difference is, here they’re not regulated. You can buy anything here—a new face, a new body. A curse. Now let’s move on.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“But the police are here,” Sandor said, stubbornly rooted in place. “They’d never allow this sort of thing in the Commonwealth.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“This is </span><span class="none2">not </span><span class="none">the Commonwealth. The police maintain a presence here, and they’ll move on anything they consider threatening to the Commonwealth. But petty molecular crimes they’ll ignore. This is not their jurisdiction.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Petty crimes?” he asked. “Is that what you call—Hey look!” The little girl had noticed his attention. He knelt down and smiled at her, and she approached him cautiously. Her hands were knotted, and nonfunctional. She held an empty bowl squeezed between her crippled arms. “So … uh, what does she want?” he asked Nikko.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	In a flat voice: “She’s a beggar, Sandy.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He scowled, uncertain. “Begging for … ?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Coins, trinkets, food, anything. That’s how her family survives. Will you give her something?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Sure.” He slipped a bracelet off his arm. If people needed help, they should be helped. Why Sunda had elected to boycott legitimate Makers he didn’t know, but he doubted this child would agree with that decision. He dropped the bracelet in the bowl.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She stared at it a moment, wide-eyed. Then she bowed frantically. A moment later she’d run back to her father to display her prize. Sandor stood up, grinning. He scanned the overhead signs, then cut left toward the corridor identified with SpanAir.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Feel pretty good about yourself?” Nikko asked.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Sure do. I don’t see why—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A commotion broke out behind him. A woman screamed. He spun around. A solid </span><span class="none2">thunk! </span><span class="none">and a child started sobbing hysterically. Sandor barely had time to step aside as the little girl raced past him holding her arms pressed against her head, her face streaked with tears and blood. </span><span class="none2">Thunk!, thunk! </span><span class="none">Two uniformed men stood over the prone figure of her father, swinging their clubs mechanically against his fragile body. The woman huddled shivering against the wall.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor’s hand closed into a fist. </span><span class="none2">“Fascists!” </span><span class="none">he hissed. He dropped his bag and charged back through the crowd.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Stay out of it!” Nikko screamed in his ear, his voice touched by a rare note of panic. “Sandor, this is not the Commonwealth. This is not—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He stopped listening. He grabbed one of the uniforms by the elbow and wrenched him aside. The shorter security guard he grasped by the wrist, aborting the flogging. “Mercy, man!” he shouted. “He’s done nothing wrong. He’s bothering no one.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The short guard stared at him with stony black eyes. After a moment, Sandor thought to release his wrist. Slowly, the guard lowered his arm. He tapped the club gently against his leg. The other, taller guard stepped up beside him, his expression officially polite. “You’re interfering in an official matter,” he said.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“They’ve done nothing wrong,” Sandor insisted. His gaze shifted to the man on the floor. He could see no sign of life in the bruised, malformed frame. This close, the odor of decaying flesh was almost overwhelming.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“On the contrary,” the tall guard said. “Begging is illegal. This family’s been warned many times to keep out of the terminal. They continue to return, and so we must employ these brutal methods. But it has nothing to do with you. Please continue with your vacation.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor continued to stare at the body. “You’ve killed him, haven’t you?” he asked.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The guard shrugged. “If you would move on….” His hand invited Sandor to leave.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Get moving before they get mad,” Nikko advised. “Believe me, you don’t want to get arrested here.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“But they killed a man.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“This is not the Commonwealth.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You keep saying that!”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“It’s worth repeating. Now let’s </span><span class="none2">go. </span><span class="none">These thugs hate ghosts and now they know you’ve got one on your shoulder. Move on before they decide to censure </span><span class="none2">you.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	All pretense of politeness had vanished from the hard eyes of the taller guard. Sandor stepped back hesitantly, then quickly turned and walked away. He could feel a crimson flush of shame wash his face. He looked around for his bag, but it had vanished. “Naturally,” Nikko said.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“So what?” His hands coiled into fists so tight he could feel fingernails biting into skin. He wanted the pain. Ugly fascist pigs! Un-nature. Dirty world. “You knew what it was like here, didn’t you, Nikko? Why’d you never tell me?’</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Grow up, Sandor.” Then, “Uh-oh. Police dog just ahead. Copy two. It’s fixed on you. Why? I don’t like this at all.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	The dog trotted toward them, the crowd parting before it as if it employed a priority transportation program. Except for Sandor. He refused to step out of its way. No matter. Because Nikko was right. Apparently it had come for him.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	It stepped aside just far enough to let him pass. Then it turned around and followed at his heel, its great head almost on a level with his shoulder, its hot breath washing across his back as it snuffled, searching his person for illegal molecules.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Be easy, Sandy,” Nikko crooned. “It’s got nothing on you.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	But Sandor felt his anger wind tighter with every step. His fingernails bored deeper into his palms. When the dog sniffed at his heel he could stand it no longer.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	He spun around and struck out with his foot, cracking the animal in the jaw. It yelped and jumped backward. “This is not your jurisdiction!” he shouted at it. “Leave me <span class="none2">alone</span><span class="none">!”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The dog lunged. Sandor twisted aside, but it struck him with its head, a glancing blow to the chest that knocked him to the ground. He tried to roll away, but the animal was quicker. It pinned him, its great jaws clamped snugly around his throat. Mortal fear caused his anger to collapse like a bubble under pressure. </span><span class="none2">This is not the Commonwealth. </span><span class="none">Here the police charter was meaningless. Here, he had no civil rights. The dog could kill him.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He thought of Fox. Dad had been bitter when he’d left Summer House. Earth was the same as Hell, in his mind. But Sandor had gone anyway, leaving his original body lying in cold storage in the Summer House mausoleum. If Fox had to revive that body, he’d see to it that the House never let Sandor Earthside again.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nature, the House would never let him </span><span class="none2">stay </span><span class="none">Earthside. Not after this run-in with the cops. Copy two was washed up. What happened to it now didn’t really matter. He’d like to preserve the memory of this trip, and yet…. “Fuck off,” he said, employing language he’d first heard a few weeks ago on the drilling platform. He stared into the beast’s mechanical eyes. “You’re violating my civil rights.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The dog remained motionless for what seemed like an eternity, but finally it released its grip on his throat and stepped back.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Amazed, Sandor rolled to his feet, one hand rubbing at his bruised neck. Briefly, he considered launching another kick at the dog. Then his gaze fell as the significance of this moment hit him. He’d never committed an act of violence in his life … until today. What had happened?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Move on, Sandor,” Nikko commanded. “Just move on.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He took the ghost’s advice, because he didn’t know what else to do. Turning his back on the dog, he started again down the corridor, pretending not to see the sympathetic stares of other travelers. He tried to understand what had happened. The House warned violence was contagious. Guess so. Suddenly, being sent back to Summer House didn’t seem such a bad idea.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He wandered aimlessly, until he spotted a door that seemed to open onto daylight. He headed for it.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	As he passed through the door, humidity enfolded him like a warm, wet blanket. He sucked in a heavy breath. Taxis lined the curb; agents shouted at him. The sun glinted fiercely off the wet pavement. In the distance he could see the city’s towers, their summits almost touching the bellies of broken black clouds still heavy with rain. Curiosity stirred in him. “Don’t even think about it,” Nikko growled.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Mr. Tibayan? Sandor Jiang-Tibayan?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He turned, startled to hear his name. Two men, both dressed in green uniforms consisting of a short-sleeved tailored shirt and knee-length pants, looked him over. One had a very fair face, with Asian features. “You are Mr. Tibayan?” he asked.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Yes, of course.“Sandor glanced from one to the other nervously.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“We are officers of the municipal police.” He flashed an ID card.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor glanced at it and Nikko nodded. “Looks authentic,” he said.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Mr. Tibayan, you are under arrest for interfering with the official duties of an airport security guard, and for attempting to vandalize an authorized security device.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You mean the dog?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The light-skinned officer nodded. His companion stepped forward, a flexible wand in one hand. On Sandor’s shoulder, Nikko cursed. “Preparing distress packet,” he muttered. “Authorize send, Sandy, </span><span class="none2">right now.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	Sandor’s jaw dropped in confusion. But Nikko was his guide; he did as he was told. The message went out. “What’s going on, Nikko? What—?”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	The second officer raised the wand and gently touched it against his head. Instinctively, Sandor stepped back. Nikko said: “Kem-wand, kid. Been nice to know you.” And a thousand tiny fires ignited in his head. He screamed. His legs buckled. His head hit the pavement with a thunderous <span class="none2">crack!</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A voice spoke out of the dark, a voice that purred soft, threatening reassurance. “You’re coming out of it now, aren’t you? There, there. A naturalizing Maker shouldn’t have hit you that hard. What have you got inside that pretty skull? Not legal wiring, I’ll bet.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A blood-red light suddenly blazed in his eyes. He blinked and the color thinned. Pink. Blinked again, and the white glare seemed to burn his retina. Behind his eyes his skull throbbed. His shoulders were on fire: his arms had been bound behind his back. He hung suspended from his wrists in a dark, stinking room, with a white light blazing in his eyes. He could barely breathe.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Nikko?” he asked softly. He felt as if his brain had been packed in foam, set aside for storage. And one of his senses had failed him. “Nikko!” he called, more urgently.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He could see, he could hear, he could taste … blood in his mouth. Sweat beaded on his bare chest, his abdomen, his naked groin. He’d been stripped. And he’d lost one of his senses. </span><span class="none2">“Nikko!” </span><span class="none">he screamed.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“He’s gone.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The voice in the dark. He tried to lift his head to see. A sharp </span><span class="none2">thawk! </span><span class="none">and his back exploded in pain. He groaned, his muscles cramping. Another blow across his back and the soft voice spoke. “Why are you here?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">“Goin’ to India!” </span><span class="none">Sandor gasped. So hard to breathe with his arms pinioned behind him; and he needed air to bleed this pain away. “Call home. Let them know—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">Thawk! </span><span class="none">“What is your business here?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Nothing! Who—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">Thawk! </span><span class="none">“Why did you leave the terminal?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Desperately: </span><span class="none2">“Air.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	“You had a rendezvous.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“No.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“With whom?”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“No one!” Someone threw a switch. The blazing light flickered as an electric shock nearly doubled his body over. It passed and he wanted to scream. But he had no breath left. Couldn’t breathe. What was happening to him? <span class="none2">“Nikko.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	“We have a picture of you. You came here to buy a stolen Maker. But these instruments of Satan are illegal in Sunda.” He chuckled softly, perhaps amused by his own hypocrisy. The government in Sunda remained in power only because of the advantages conferred by their Makers. “We have friends who’ve advised us about your activities. They say you’re only a foolish child, and that we should spare you. But first you must tell us: where is the original thief?”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“I don’t—” An electric shock interrupted him. His teeth fused together, biting his tongue. Blood flowed in his mouth. When the shock ended, he gasped for breath, aspirating the blood. He choked, his body writhing for air. He blacked out for a few seconds.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“We would like to let you live,” the soft voice said, pulling him back to consciousness. “Wouldn’t you like to return to your home? You can. Just tell us why you came to Sunda.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Sandor tried to nod, eager to tell them anything. “Install … security. On a … platform.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“You belong to Summer House.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Yesss….”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Where were you supposed to meet the thief?”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	They didn’t believe him! They thought he was somebody else. The realization horrified him. He couldn’t tell them what he didn’t know.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Where did you intend to meet?” the soft voice repeated.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Nowhere!” Sandor screamed. “I don’t know—” Another electric shock racked his body. His muscles spasmed so hard he thought his bones would break. He started to black out again, but the sharp sting of a needle inoculated him with a terrible, detailed awareness. He could hear everyone in the room; smell his own piss on the floor.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	He could not sense the atrium. It would not respond to his entreaties. He couldn’t call out, couldn’t summon data, couldn’t summon Nikko. “My mind is dead,” he whispered.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Ah, but your body is very much alive. Sometimes a body can be a burden.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Another electric shock, touching every cell, confirming the awful diagnosis. <span class="none2">“Alive… ?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Tell me,” his torturer crooned. “Tell me. We’d love to send you home.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	The House skirted the legal boundaries of molecular technology. Subtle advantages could be mingled almost imperceptibly in the complex human system. Most had to be controlled through the atrium; but one had been developed as a last resort that would function even after the atrium was gone. <span class="none2">“Not alive,” </span><span class="none">Sandor whispered. </span><span class="none2">“Don’t hurt when… not alive.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	He powered down. Voluntary control of the autonomic nervous system. He stopped his heartbeat. Terminated all motor function. His last breath eased noisily out of his lungs and his bowel failed. His ears he kept alive. And his brain.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Loud scuffling in the dark. Voices spoke, but Sandor didn’t know the language. Someone shouted in rage. His head thudded against the floor. The dull wallop of fist against flesh as they tried to restart his heart. Cursing.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Silence.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	He let himself breathe, imperceptibly. His heart squeezed out a hundred beats.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Later, four men removed his body. <span class="none2">Shoosh </span><span class="none">of a car door, soft hum of its engines. A long time. He breathes occasionally; lets his heart run. The car stops. </span><span class="none2">Shoosh. </span><span class="none">Hum of crowd voices not too far away. After a time, voices soft with tension. The door closes; the car proceeds. Only a few minutes this time before they stop again. Groans and curses. His body’s moved. Rippling sound of water flowing. More voices. A great shout! Then—</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The fizz of bubbles filled his ears and all the street sounds vanished. Something crunched under his head with awful clarity, sound that moved too fast. In a panic he released his heart. It thundered in his chest. He opened his mouth to suck in a lungful of air. Water choked his throat. Motor function swept back into his limbs and he thrashed. His arms were strapped to his sides. He bumped along underwater, driven by a fierce current, pinned to the bottom by an awful weight that nearly crushed his shoulders. He twisted, thrashed. Finally got his feet under him and </span><span class="none2">pushed. </span><span class="none">His head broke the surface. Sunlight blinded him. He kicked frantically, coughed, spluttered, caught a breath then plunged to the bottom again.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	What had they weighted him with? He had to get it off, get it off. He could bend his arms at the elbow. He groped with his fingers. Felt insulated wire wrapped securely around his chest. He pulled at it. Yanked, fought, struggled. Shot to the surface again for another breath of air.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	On the bottom again. He realized the wire had loosened. Had a knot slipped? Had he simply shifted position? He tugged at it and it moved an inch up his arms. He ducked and twisted, lungs burning as he fought the wire.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	It snapped. The weight vanished. He rolled free in the current. Which way was up? For a moment he didn’t know. Then he felt the bottom under his head. He rolled over and pushed, bursting from the water in a fountain of spray.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p></div></div></div></div></body></html>
