<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta name="generator" content="http://calibre-ebook.com"/>
    <title>Linda Nagata - Nanotech Succession 01</title>
    <meta name="author" content="The Bohr Maker"/>
    <meta name="creation-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta name="revision-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre1">
<div class="calibre1"><div class="s2"><h2 class="calibre4" id="calibre_pb_4">   <span class="none3">CHAPTER</span></h2><h2 class="calibre5"></h2></div><div class="calibre1"><div class="s3"><h3 class="calibre6"> <span class="none3">4</span></h3><h3 class="calibre6"></h3></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> </span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You were with her again, weren’t you?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko started at the unexpected voice. His gaze shifted from the dark eye of the camera lens to the door of his apartment. It had opened, admitting his father.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Wordlessly, he turned back to the camera. The four-centimeter lens floated on the end of a tentacle. The tentacle sprouted from a data-storage plate lying beside him on the couch amidst a jumble of straps that would allow him to wear the camera as a backpack. Guided by a Dull Intelligence, the camera had turned, recording an image of Fox.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Why do you continue to visit her, Nikko?” Nikko’s ghost had left Kirstin and come home to Summer House nearly an hour ago. He’d absorbed its impassioned memories, and now he was involved in dictating them into the camera’s data base. For the past several weeks he’d been assembling a documentary exploring his struggle against his own preprogrammed death. He felt it to be the most important piece of work he’d ever done. He did not like to admit, even to himself, that it would probably be his last.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He held up his hands, so that Fox couldn’t overlook their ugly twitching and trembling. At this level of Summer House the spin-generated pseudogravity was nearly two-thirds Earth normal, and his shaking hands reflected the strain. “Kirstin’s star material,” he said, staring into the faithful lens of the attentive camera. Sarcasm put a bitter edge on his voice. “What better way to get people to watch a documentary detailing my state-sanctioned murder than by including the antics of the ever-popular Chief of Police? Her involvement guarantees the biggest audience any treatise of mine has ever enjoyed.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You won’t hurt her,” Fox said. “She’ll deny everything. She always does.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The tentacle swung around, tracking Fox’s part in the debate. The image it recorded was of a tall, pale man with a head of thinning red hair and a system-wide reputation in molecular design. Oddly for a designer who specialized in physiological applications, he actually looked well aged—near sixty on a physiological scale, though his chronological age was even more—ninety-seven, according to the records. Fox would claim he preferred the “dignity” of obvious maturity. Nikko figured it was just another act of penance on the part of a guilt-ridden father, but on the subject of Fox and Fox alone Nikko kept any such acerbic opinions to himself.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You’re wasting your time with her, Nikko. She’s using you. She’ll never grant you a reprieve, no matter what you do for her.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I know it, Fox.” Nikko felt this truth as a knot deep in his gut. To ease his own tension, he asked, half jokingly, “I don’t suppose you’ve added a new Maker to your bag of tricks lately? Something that might help her change her mind?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	It was the wrong thing to say. Despite Nikko’s unique beginnings in his father’s lab, Fox had proved to be a typical parent, given to self doubts and worry over his own role as a father. He’d spent much of the last thirty years tormenting himself over the wording of the research permit. And now Nikko had inadvertently given him a chance to indulge in another round of guilt. “Nikko, you know what my behavioral Makers will do. If I had one that good, I would have used it by now.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Huh.” His kisheer trembled briefly about his shoulders. “You could make one that good. But you won’t.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	To Nikko’s mind, that was the wound that lay between them—not the damned research permit. Fox was Summer House and Summer House had made its reputation on marginal-tolerance Makers: those programmable molecular machines that came questionably close to modifying human, environmental, or artificial intelligence systems beyond the limits imposed by Commonwealth law. But the law was an artificial constraint. Its restrictions had created a seething, boiling frontier of creative energy, crushed between the successes of the past and the limited present. It was an unstable situation, ripe for provocation…. But Fox had always refused to cross the line.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Camera off.” The tentacle sank down against the storage plate, while Nikko’s tremulous fingers hammered against his thigh in an angry, staccato beat. “You really want to help me, Fox? Then design a Reaper Maker that can reach Kirstin. Let me take her down before I go under.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox gave him a look of open contempt. “You want me to risk the security of the House for a simple revenge killing?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Gotta start somewhere.” His kisheer rippled like an angry cat’s tail. “You’ve been playing it safe too long.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The Commonwealth had been created to keep people safe from the new technologies, to protect them from themselves and from one another. Its creation hadn’t ended the existence of the old nations of Earth. The EC, California, the Atlantic Seaboard Union, Australia, Japan, and hundreds of other countries were still functioning political entities, with their own laws and their own customs. But like the newer Celestial Cities, they’d ceded some of their sovereign rights to the Commonwealth. They’d all agreed that biological and technological law would be determined by a Commonwealth judiciary, with severe penalties for any transgression.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Not every country on Earth had joined the Commonwealth. Many had retained a paper independence, for reasons of nationalism or because of religious ethics. But even in these backward countries Commonwealth law was enforced, by specific agreement if possible, but if not, then by espionage. For no independent body could be allowed to develop technology surpassing that of the Commonwealth, or the police would become helpless and the Commonwealth would crumble overnight.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Perhaps the effort to control technological change had been laudable in the early days. But to Nikko’s mind it had gone on too long, imposing too many rules, too many restrictions, too many limits in what could be a limitless world. Why designate the present human form as the end result of evolution when there were so many other possibilities? Nikko dreamed of the day when he could blow it all wide open.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“We can’t win by defying the police,” Fox told him. “You’ve got to stop thinking like a child.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I don’t want to defy the police. I want to break the Commonwealth.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I want it too! You know that. And it will happen. But the time’s not right.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“The time?” Nikko’s kisheer moved across his face like a mask, its tendrils starting to fuse with his skin and the soft tissue of his mouth and nose. He yanked his head back. With a mental effort, he forced the kisheer down. “There won’t </span><span class="none2">be </span><span class="none">any other time for me, Dad. I’ve done all I can. You’ve done all you’re willing to do. Nothing left now but to close up accounts.” He fought to calm the trembling kisheer, hating it for all that it revealed about him.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But Fox took no notice. He was shaking his head. “It’s not over yet,” he said. “You still have a few more weeks. Sit tight, Nikko. Don’t expose yourself. I need this time. I might have a way to hide you, but—” He turned away, his hands pulling at his red hair in frustration. “Love and Nature! I’m not ready to talk about this yet.” He stomped toward the door.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But Nikko had tasted a hint of something forbidden. He sprang up from the couch. “Fox, don’t fade on me now. What are you working on?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox shook his head and waved his hand in dismissal. He took another two steps toward the door. But then he seemed to reconsider. He turned to face Nikko. “We may be able to code you into the biogenesis function,” he blurted out.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“The biogenesis function?” Nikko couldn’t keep the scorn out of his voice. “That’s no refuge. It’s a fantasy.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The biogenesis function was Fox’s pet project—a theoretical complex of assembly codes that would define every element of Summer House and its internal environment in a sequenced construction plan. Wrap the code in a packet of assembly Makers, drop it on an appropriate substrate, and—in theory at least—it would be possible to replicate the entire House.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	In theory.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“The biogenesis function is never going to exist, Fox. It’s too complex.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Its complexity can hide you,” Fox said softly, in a voice that betrayed his own uncertainty.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I don’t want to be a string of code! I want to be alive. I would do anything to stay alive.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox nodded grimly. “I know. You’ve proved that with Kirstin.” He started for the door again.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko’s kisheer trembled in anger. But his bitter retort was silenced by a sudden wave of dizziness. A psychic breeze seemed to blow over him, sweeping away his strength. He stared at Fox’s retreating back in confusion. He wanted to call out to Fox for help, but words eluded him. He watched the door open; watched Fox leave. The door closed, leaving him alone in the room, questions crowding his mind but the will to speak them oddly gone. He sagged back down onto the couch, his body weak, his mind reeling. The sensation frightened him. He didn’t know what to make of it. It occurred to him that he might be dying much sooner than expected.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A figure moved near the door. He saw it on the periphery of his vision and relief washed over him. Fox had come back. “Dad?” he croaked.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The bout of dizziness was passing, though the tremor in his hands seemed to have gotten worse. He lifted his head. But it wasn’t Fox standing near the door. It was a little gentleman, whom Nikko was quite sure he’d never seen before. “Who the hell are you?” he growled. “And how did you get in here?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The stranger was small and lithe, with skin as milky-white as Nikko’s little brother, Sandor, and with hair as blond. He drew himself up, his chest puffed out like some cartoon caricature. “You’ve taken something that doesn’t belong to you!” he announced imperiously. “I command you to give it back. Give it back, or—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko laughed. He couldn’t help it. This little man was about as fierce as a tiger cub imitating a tiger. “Nature save us twice,” he chuckled. “And whose joke are you?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The stranger’s scowl collapsed. His puffed-up belligerence vanished like yesterday’s rumors. His eyes roved restlessly from side to side as if he were mentally searching for guidance.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Oh, bother.” He turned half away from Nikko, his left hand working in a nervous fist. A faint flush troubled the moonlight complexion of his face. “I just can’t pull this sort of thing off,” he muttered. “I’ve never had it in me. Well. I still have to do it, don’t I? Of course. That’s why I came.” He stomped his foot heartily, then gazed up at Nikko, his jaw thrust forward in a comical display of determination. “Look,” he said at last. “You’ve got to give it back, that’s all. Just give it back. You don’t really want it, you know.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“What?” Nikko asked. A gentle wave of anxiety rippled through his kisheer.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“The Maker! The Maker of course. The one that you’ve stolen. Oh, you’re good.” He shook his head in what seemed to be a gesture of admiration. “People have tried before. Of course, of course. Nothing new under the sun. Everything there is to do, has been done, time and time again. So many people. Impossible to be the first or the only anymore.” He frowned. “Except of course you’ve done it. That’s why I’m here. That’s right. You were the first to succeed. Oh, you’re good. But—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He shook his head again, this time in a seeming gesture of despair. “How I run on! Do forgive me. Back to the Maker: it’ll bring you nothing but trouble. That’s what I wanted to say. The police won’t rest until they have you—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	At mention of the police, Nikko’s kisheer went still. So he had a trail to cover. What Maker did this gentleman mean? Where? He searched his memory. He had ghosts pursuing several research projects, but he’d received nothing illegal lately. He stared at the little man, mystified. But of course his uninvited guest could read nothing of that on his expressionless face. “Are you a cop?” Nikko asked softly.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“No, no of course not. If I were, I wouldn’t have bothered to come here. You’d already be arrested.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Then who—” He jumped as the door opened.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox had come back. Nikko turned to him with a rush of relief. But Fox would have none of it. He didn’t even glance at the little man. His pointing finger and his red-faced anger were directed solely at Nikko.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You’ve been drawing Sandor into your schemes again! I’ve just had a call from Castle. You’ve been tampering with his schedule. I won’t have it, Nikko! Risk yourself if that’s what you feel you must do. It’s your business. I can’t stop you. But don’t involve your brother!”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko looked between Fox and the odd little gentleman. “You don’t see him, do you, Fox?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Something in Nikko’s voice must have registered with Fox, because he hesitated, and glanced around as if he suddenly sensed something odd afoot. His gaze swept across the little man without slowing.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko felt his heart freeze. When it started beating again, it thundered in his chest.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The little man looked chagrined. “Didn’t you know I was a ghost? That was the whole point of this effort! How could I hope to terrify you in person? Well. You’ve finally worked it out. I certainly am a ghost.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A cold, thorny lump of fear settled in the bottom of Nikko’s stomach. “I didn’t open my atrium to you,” he whispered.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The little man grinned in relief. “Exactly!” he cried. “</span><span class="none2">I</span><span class="none"> opened it. I can command it. You see, that’s the point. I’ve gotten past your defensive Makers and now I can admit anything into your atrium. And I can order your atrium to admit anything to your mind. I can destroy you.” He looked down, as if a trifle embarrassed at this last statement. “Well, I don’t want to, you know. But if you don’t give up the Maker, I’ll have to do it. I will. And that’ll be that for you.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko’s kisheer began to tremble again. It was one thing for this man to invade his apartment. Another thing entirely to invade his mind. He started to rise from the couch.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Nikko!” Fox demanded. “What’s wrong with you?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko commanded his atrium to shut down. It wouldn’t obey him. He commanded it to evict any present persona. Nothing happened.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Useless,” the little man said. “Until I turn control back over to you.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko turned to Fox. Fox could rid him of this ridiculous parasite. Fox knew defensive Makers better than anyone.…</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I’ve been poisoned,” Nikko hissed.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Oh stop!” the little stranger said. “Keep this to yourself. Don’t let it get out of hand.” He deliberately stepped in front of Fox. “Look. I’ve got one of your ghosts. The very thief, in fact, who stole my Maker. I’m going to dump it on you. I have to do it that way, you see, so you’ll know that I can. But I’ll be back. I want that Maker.” He vanished.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko stared at the spot where he’d been standing. Then his chin snapped up as a tone in the mid-range hummed in his head. He’d never heard the signal before and it took him a second to dredge up the implanted memory of an emergency beacon. A ghost was coming in, and it wouldn’t stop at Summer House plexus to await an invitation. It would drop directly into his atrium and he had no way to stop it. The tone stretched from one second to three. Only he, Fox, and his brother Sandor possessed his emergency code.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Nikko!” Fox shouted. His hands were on Nikko’s shoulders. “What’s wrong with—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The ghost flooded his atrium. A disembodied face flickered into existence. He recognized Sandor. The fingers of his left hand hammered against the smooth enamel of his thigh. “Sandor?” he croaked, uncertain. Sandor was only eighteen and Earthside for the first time. </span><span class="none2">Leave him out of this! </span><span class="none">Nikko thought fervently. </span><span class="none2">Let it be me. </span><span class="none">For he’d developed the vice of ghosting behind his brother’s face. Sandor was human-ordinary … far more difficult to trace than Nikko. And Sandor had a pretty face, a face that people seemed to warm to almost instinctively.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“It’s Nikko!” the ghost barked, removing all doubt. “We’ve got trouble—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The unheard-of happened. The ghost slipped out of the atrium and poured itself into his mind. Not the slow soak of an ordinary return, when the atrium gradually layered the memories of the ghost onto his original self. But a sudden, horrible awakening, a discovery of a past he hadn’t lived and couldn’t be responsible for.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A moment later the available blood sugars in his brain had been consumed. He dropped to the floor.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Scattered impressions swept over him as his heart pumped tides of energy to his brain, enough to sustain a pulsing consciousness. The soft carpet against his forehead … now against his back. Soft light in his eyes. Fox, voice anxious, shouting, shaking him by the shoulders … the foot of the sofa pressed into the carpet….</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Earthside: the quest for the Bohr Maker.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">Ah ha! The Bohr Maker! That was what the little gentleman had meant. Then he’d done it, he’d actually done it. He’d lifted the Maker right out of police files. Oh, the little man had been right. He was good. But then</span><span class="none">—</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Disaster. Failure.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Nikko!” a stranger shouted at him. “Wake up! Answer me!” A sharp slap to his face, then another. “Nikko!”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Leave me alone!” he growled. He rolled over onto his stomach, shoved himself up on hands and knees. His head still swam. An IV ran out of his shaking arm.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Stay down,” the medic urged, applying gentle pressure to his shoulder. “We only want you awake, not ambulatory.” She almost succeeded in tipping him over.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Leave me alone!” Nikko roared, slapping her hand away. He sat back, panting. A niggling pain stung his arm. He looked down at the IV; yanked it out. It left a drop of blood behind.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Dammit!” the medic cursed, trying to slap a patch on the wound.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	An arm encircled his heaving shoulders. Fox leaned close to him. “Nikko, you fainted,” he said softly. “Sit still a moment, before you go down again.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">“Leave me alone,” </span><span class="none">he whispered.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The odd little man might return at any moment. Nikko didn’t think he could stand that. He wanted the atrium out of his head. He wanted it out </span><span class="none2">now. </span><span class="none">He wanted it off. He issued the order.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	To his surprise, the atrium obeyed him. It shut itself off. He sagged against Fox in relief.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“That’s right,” Fox crooned, hugging him. “Relax. Lie down—” Nikko shoved his arms away and struggled to his feet. He had the Bohr Maker! But Fox would never condone that. Too dangerous to cross the police….</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	His legs felt rubbery, his brain </span><span class="none2">abuzz. </span><span class="none">He leaned against a wall and forced himself to laugh. “Told you my time was up,” he said to Fox, trying to turn the whole incident into a dark-humored joke. “An attack like that has to be a precursor to The End.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox clearly didn’t believe him. “That wasn’t part of the syndrome,” he said. “You were with a ghost.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“No.” He pushed himself away from the wall. Scooping the camera pack from the couch, he slung it over his shoulder and staggered drunkenly toward the door, feeling as if his blood had been drained and replaced with water.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox caught his arm. “I want you in the hospital.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I’m all right!” Nikko shouted. He yanked his arm out of Fox’s grip and shrugged into the camera pack. “And like you said, Dad. It’s </span><span class="none2">my </span><span class="none">business.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The door slid open for him. He lurched across the corridor to the transit node.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Nikko, let me help you,” Fox pleaded.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Not this time, Dad.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He plunged into the thick jelly of the transit’s protoplasmic column. Summer House immediately evacuated a transit bubble around him: an oval cell of soft, fleshy brown walls, with an extruded seat that would cradle him against acceleration. Tentatively, he switched on the atrium, just long enough to tell Summer House his destination. “Anywhere outside, by the fastest route.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The bubble that contained him shot into the transport system, whisking him through the city and between the great cells of the oceans to the outer walls. He shrugged his trembling kisheer up over his face. The respiratory organ’s supple tissue fused with the papillae in his nose and mouth, and sealed across his ears. A burst of mildly euphoric chemicals accompanied the closure, easing him past the gag reflex that Fox had not quite engineered out. A moment later, a flood of sweet oxygen flowed from the accessory organ into his respiratory tract. He breathed it gratefully. The oxygen was harvested from waste carbon dioxide in his blood and breath, in a process fueled by his own metabolism. In theory, the system could operate indefinitely, allowing him to live for weeks in the void, without respite. He might even hide from the police for a while, in the vast glassine forests. The thought teased at his mind, though it stirred dread in him rather than hope. He didn’t think of himself as a creature of the void, but rather as a creature of the strand, moving freely between the worlds of air and vacuum. And besides, he could not </span><span class="none2">eat </span><span class="none">with the kisheer in place. While his body’s waste products could be effectively recycled by his genital organ, the thought of living off an intravenous line seemed absurd to him. He would not live out his last weeks as a refugee. He would not let the police—or anyone else—force him to that.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A warning chime sounded. A moment later, Summer House spilled him into the void.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p></div></div></div></div></body></html>
