<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta name="generator" content="http://calibre-ebook.com"/>
    <title>Linda Nagata - Nanotech Succession 01</title>
    <meta name="author" content="The Bohr Maker"/>
    <meta name="creation-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta name="revision-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre1">
<div class="calibre1"><div class="s2"><h2 class="calibre4" id="calibre_pb_12">   <span class="none3">CHAPTER</span></h2><h2 class="calibre5"></h2></div><div class="calibre1"><div class="s3"><h3 class="calibre6"> <span class="none3">12</span></h3><h3 class="calibre6"></h3></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> </span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita blinked as bright sunlight fell across her eyes. She sighed and stretched, watching sparkles of refracted light dance across her lashes. She’d gone to sleep in the shade, but the sun had moved across the sky until now her skin burned. Time to move.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Suddenly, a new scent came to her. She sat up abruptly, shoving her matted hair out of her eyes. It was the angel; somehow she knew it. He was drawing nearer.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She looked around cautiously, but saw no one. Where was Arif?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	When they’d been running from the dog, she’d told him they must bathe in the river to erase every trace of their old scents. But </span><span class="none2">he’d </span><span class="none">insisted they go for a swim. The river had been chugging between its concrete banks, swollen by rain in the distant mountains. She’d sobbed in terror as he’d dragged her into the muddy waters, fighting him with every step until she could no longer find the bottom. Then she had no choice but to cling to him as he rode the wild current nearly a mile downstream. The river echoed his raging mood. When he finally sought the bank, he carried her up the steep concrete slope, set her stumbling on her feet, then screamed at her for ten minutes, hitting her periodically with his cupped hand for emphasis. He screamed, but he said nothing. He was only venting his rage. The clan had lost everything, the children were scattered, dogs pursued them, and he’d sold himself for </span><span class="none2">her. </span><span class="none">And for what? She’d be dead soon. Plague would take her. Despite his unfailing service in her behalf. Why, look what he’d endured for her today! And all because of </span><span class="none2">tuan. </span><span class="none">(As if it were </span><span class="none2">her </span><span class="none">fault.) Why did we plant </span><span class="none2">tuan</span><span class="none">? he screamed. (He knew it was his fault.) What is happening to our lives?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She couldn’t answer that. All she could do was calm him, concocting a spell in her tears that would enter his body and lull his mind toward sleep. She couldn’t allow him to return to the clan now, not in this mood. He’d beat the children, hurt them senselessly, and maybe, </span><span class="none2">maybe, </span><span class="none">the Knives would finally turn on him.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	So she’d collapsed at his feet, sobbing apologies, declaring her unworthiness, begging forgiveness. He kicked her once and turned away. Then he seemed to reconsider, as she knew he would. He returned to her, crouched at her side, and slipped his arm around her shoulders. She looked up at him, raised her head to rest it against his shoulder. With her fingers she rubbed at her tears. Then she touched his lips, and moments later a veil seemed to fall across his anger. He sighed, and she could feel his tense body begin to relax. “I’m very tired,” she said plaintively. “I can’t go on, I need to rest. Please help me one more time.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He nodded. Together they explored the riverbank until they found shelter amongst the tumbled concrete blocks of a broken foundation. Arif picked out a patch of shade near the water. He dragged an old beggar out of it, then urged him away with a few hard kicks. Phousita watched him sorrowfully, but said nothing. “Sit down, you stupid woman!” he barked. She obeyed and he settled next to her. They’d listened to the river flow as they gradually drifted into sleep.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But now the shade had gone, and so had Arif. Phousita stretched again, feeling renewed, refreshed. Not at all stiff from her nap on the unyielding concrete. So strange. Of course hunger had begun to gnaw once again at her belly. She tossed her head and her nostrils flared. She caught Arif’s scent—very strong—and the scent of the angel, more nebulous. But he’s coming, she realized with growing excitement. He’ll be here soon.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She followed Arif’s trail around a large block of concrete to the river’s edge. He squatted in the sun, his feet in the water while his fingers strained the river for fluff. He’d already collected a fair pile of it on the concrete bank. Sudden fear set her heart pounding. “Arif!” she cried. “Get back! Get away from the water. You know the ‘Surgence will shoot you. Arif!”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He looked at her calmly. “The Resurgence has done all they can do to us today. They’re celebrating.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“They are not!” Burning the warehouse had been nothing to them. He knew that. He knew they’d be back. He’d chosen to disregard it. He’d been pushed beyond his limit, and he would hide no longer today, even if it meant his death.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You’re hungry again, aren’t you?” Arif accused, turning around to gather up the pile of fluff he’d collected. “This is for you.” He held it out to her.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She stared at it. Saliva started to flow in her mouth.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He laughed at her, then walked up the concrete bank and sat down, pulling her down beside him. “Eat,” he commanded. “I won’t have you running off again tonight.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She ate, staring at the water, too ashamed to look at Arif. As she finished the last of it, she suddenly realized the scent of the angel had grown much stronger. She stood, staring upstream, her nostrils testing the air. Arif watched her suspiciously. “He’s coming,” she said.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Who?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She shook her head. Arif cursed her. After a moment: “There. See?” She pointed up the river. But Arif was already on his feet, gazing at the spectacle approaching along the riverbank.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A raucous crowd of at least a hundred people waded through the edge of the racing water or negotiated the steep bank, whooping and yelling, stumbling into each other as they sought to keep up with an object being swept along by the current.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“It’s him,” Phousita said, her voice soft with </span><span class="none2">amazement. </span><span class="none">“Look at his golden hair.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The angel clung—or he’d been trapped—in a tangle of deadwood. Only his head showed above the water. She couldn’t tell if he was now alive. He’d been dead; she knew that. She could remember casting him in the river. There had been much fear and anger and a need to hide his body. </span><span class="none2">“The river.” </span><span class="none">Someone had said it. Afterward no one was quite sure who. </span><span class="none2">“The river will obliterate his corpse.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	She turned to Arif. “Look how they pursue him. They wait for him to wash up against the bank.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Arif’s mouth turned in a wicked smile. “Sure. He must be rich. I’ll take him myself!”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Yes,” she said, with a nod of satisfaction. “He is for us.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Arif leapt into the river. Phousita watched his hard body slice the water like a spear. He surfaced several meters away and struck off across the current. Smiling, she sat down to wait. The evil sorcerer had arranged everything so well.</p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The river seemed to be without end. Swollen by rain in the mountains, it raged through the city, sweeping up filth and debris that had accumulated on its banks, giving up nothing. Sandor couldn’t escape it. He struggled to swim but he had no strength. The river rolled him over and over, filling his eyes and nose with grit, forcing silty water down his throat. He retched and sputtered, fighting to keep his head above the surface. Now and then he caught sight of the shore: dilapidated buildings leaning precariously over the water, fine estates, burned-out ruins, luxurious gardens, ramshackle structures whose function he couldn’t guess. The river swept him past it all and he began to wonder if it would ultimately sweep him all the way to the sea. He imagined himself lost in the blue waters of the ocean, circling sharks below and gray seabirds overhead. The fierce light of the sun turning the waves to gold—</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He cried out as something struck him in the head. He turned and lunged for the object, felt a solid something under his hands. He clung with primate tenacity to the broken stump of an uprooted tree. It felt like heaven to him, the perfect float. He kept his face out of the water for ten seconds, fifteen, twenty, breathing, pumping oxygen into his starving tissue. The shore began to look less distant. His shaking hands began to calm.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He pressed his head against a pillow of wood, wondering how long he’d be able to hold on to this precarious raft, how long before the river rolled it over. He found himself staring at his forearm, at a puncture wound where the local cops had ripped out his ID chip.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	His eyes began to close. In his mind the roar of the river was transformed into the soft, pelting rush of rain falling in the vertical forests of Summer House. He clung to a tree branch to keep from falling in the easy gravity and napped while the monkeys foraged through the trees.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A hand clasped his arm and yanked him off his perch. He surged forward to keep from falling. Water closed over his head as his arm was twisted behind his back. Someone was holding him underwater! He writhed helplessly. Then suddenly he was jerked backward; an arm crossed his chest like a steel strap. Air washed into his lungs. </span><span class="none2">“Pay me,” </span><span class="none">a gritty voice hissed in his ear. He could feel a rough hand searching his back, his buttocks, his abdomen. “Nothing?” his rescuer cried, a single word that exposed a mountain of frustration. “You have nothing! Why do they follow you on the bank if you’ve already been stripped?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The arm that held him above the water was suddenly gone. He slipped beneath the surface. Water flooded his nose and eyes. He kicked hard and burst once again into sunlight. “Help me!” he screamed, his head swiveling wildly as he searched for the other. “I can </span><span class="none2">pay. </span><span class="none">Don’t leave me here.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Someone seized him by his hair. </span><span class="none2">“What can you pay?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Money, goods, whatever you want.” He reached back to grab his rescuer’s wrist. He would not be left behind!</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“I command many Knives. If you don’t pay me, I will kill you.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“The House will pay. Take me out of the river. Need to call home. No rivers in Summer House. No fascists—” He choked on a mouthful of water. “Vertical forests… have you been there? I’m still there. Everything alive … but me. I live here now. Die here….” He listened to his own babble, unable to stop it. Eventually, the roar of the river overwhelmed all other sound. Its voice poured through his ears and into his mind, dissolving his thoughts until they ran together in a pleasant, bubbling stream.</p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He lay on a hard surface that refused to conform to his body or yield in any way. The afternoon sun glared from a golden sky, blistering his bare skin, blinding him. He groaned and turned his head. A monster crouched at his side. A horrible yellow clown-monster with violet eyes, a hooked nose at least five inches long, and cheeks so round they looked as if they’d been stretched over billiard balls.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Dismissing the vision as a product of his injuries, he turned his head the other way. A pretty young woman smiled at him. She had lovely brown eyes and dark tangled hair tied loosely behind her neck. A worn blue breastcloth encircled a generous chest; a faded yellow sarong hid her legs. He suspected faulty judgment, for she seemed no larger than a child of seven or eight.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He smiled at her. Lifting a hand, he touched her flushed cheek just to be sure she was real.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But someone slapped his hand away. She pulled back, startled. Sandor turned his head. The monster still crouched on his other side. He swallowed hard, wondering if the rules that governed this fantasy allowed the monster to eat him.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The monster spoke: “Where’s your money?” The same gritty voice that had pulled him from the river.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Have to call home,” Sandor croaked. His throat was swollen, his voice almost gone.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The pretty woman spoke to the beast. Her words ran like music, though Sandor couldn’t understand them. The creature growled something in return. Strong hands grasped him under his arms, hauled him to his feet. With help he could stand. The pretty woman took his hand and smiled encouragement. With the assistance of her monster he began to walk. “My name is Sandor Jiang-Tibayan,” he told her. “I belong to Summer House. Please, I must call home.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She looked distressed. Her gaze shifted to her pet.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“She doesn’t understand English,” the creature growled.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“What’s her name?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Nothing, to you.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	They climbed the bank and threaded their way through a village of crude shanties inhabited by dull-eyed, bony children. They reached a street. There were no vehicles, though foot traffic ran fairly heavy as shabbily dressed men and women pursued their business. “You have a phone, </span><span class="none2">tuan?” </span><span class="none">Sandor asked.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The monster laughed. </span><span class="none2">“Tuan? </span><span class="none">You are </span><span class="none2">tuan, </span><span class="none">though the river almost had you. Call me Arif. I have no phone. I have no home. I have no money. But then, neither do you.”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p></div></div></div></div></body></html>
