<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta name="generator" content="http://calibre-ebook.com"/>
    <title>Linda Nagata - Nanotech Succession 01</title>
    <meta name="author" content="The Bohr Maker"/>
    <meta name="creation-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta name="revision-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre1">
<div class="calibre1"><div class="s2"><h2 class="calibre4" id="calibre_pb_7">   <span class="none3">CHAPTER</span></h2><h2 class="calibre5"></h2></div><div class="calibre1"><div class="s3"><h3 class="calibre6"> <span class="none3">7</span></h3><h3 class="calibre6"></h3></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> </span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin Adair sat on her balcony, drinking tea and attending to the backlog of calls that had accumulated during her hour with Nikko. She pulled them up one by one from the majordomo program into her atrium: a succession of routine business and little emergencies well-known to any high-level administrator. After almost thirty years as Chief of Police she could handle them with unconscious ease.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Individual cases rarely came to her attention. Most were routine violations of ordinance: the inclusion of illicit genetic material at conception; proscribed neurological and physiological talents; assault Makers—germ weapons designed to force deleterious or illegally advantageous mutations in target individuals; terrorist Makers, designed to attack essential elements of cities/corporations/families/individuals; Makers designed to spy on corporate competition or estranged lovers; Makers possessing generalized machine intelligence; Makers possessing self-aware personalities; unregistered behavioral viruses; unregulated modification of plants or animals or the creation of artificial plants or animals; duplicate personas existing in duplicate bodies.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Molecular technologies had allowed the celestial cities to be built; they’d been used to restore many of Earth’s ecosystems. But molecular technologies demanded limits. They could not be allowed to run wild, or Gaia would be broken, torn to pieces, and the pieces changed so that they could never be put back together again. These days, it was the function of the police to ensure that never happened. But the war had been going on long before the Commonwealth, and Kirstin had been part of it even then.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She’d been lucky. She’d had a daddy who’d been a professional adventurer, a movie maker, a writer, and a rugged philosopher never short on grants and sponsors to fund his next expedition. He’d had only contempt for the heated, sound-insulated, locked and guarded comfort of a condominium, and he had custody of his daughter for six months every year. He taught her to be strong: physically, emotionally, and intellectually. To be sensitive: to the presence of a greater entity around her. In South America, New Zealand, Antarctica, the Himalayas: she learned to sense the voice of the natural world. Gaia spoke in a complex language of predator and prey, of growth and dormancy, of birth and migration, of seasonal change, of storms, of currents, and finally, of cruelty and death and </span><span class="none2">necessity. </span><span class="none">Kirstin had come to feel part of the natural world, perfectly adapted to it, one strand in a web hung in four dimensions, spanning billions of years, a creative system of immeasurable potential.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But her father’s period of custody would inevitably end, and she’d be thrust back into the crowded, mechanical, parasitic isolatorium of the city. She stood out from the pack at school like a wild marten amongst trained rats, her individuality drowning in a sea of sheltered classmates. The rat packs lived their lives between the air-conditioned mall, the air-conditioned condo, the air-conditioned school, and they thought they were </span><span class="none2">elemental </span><span class="none">because they moved in tribes and carried guns and knew how to lie to mommy. Disconnection. Cold winter: Daddy had come five thousand miles just to see her. Now he was lying in the street outside Mommy’s condo, blood welling from his mouth, cut down by trained rats. Kirstin saw it happen. But she never screamed. She never cried. Instead, she woke up to the truth: Gaia was under attack by an infestation of human rats feeding on the carnage of unsustainable technological explosions that tore through the body of the Goddess like bullets, blood oozing from the ruptured web of life.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But Gaia was old and strong and wily. She always produced corrective mechanisms. Feedback response: a predator appears. There were too many rats to exterminate, but the problem could still be neatly managed. First, disarm the rats. Then feed them, protect them, let them grow soft. See that their nascent separation from the real world is made complete. Withhold from them the power to ever threaten Gaia again. And if some among them still insist on straying outside their niche? Kirstin smiled to herself. That’s why she was here. That’s why the cops existed. To pick off the maladapted and maintain the integrity of the herd.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	And if she enjoyed her work, so what? Did the wolf feel guilty about bringing down the sickly and the weak when it pursued a herd of deer? No. Like Kirstin, it happily performed its role in the body of the Goddess.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Not alone, of course. She kept herself aloof from the routine duties of the Commonwealth police, leaving the daily challenges of enforcement to the discretion of her officers. As Chief of Police, she focused her own attention on guiding the political currents of the Commonwealth, ensuring that cities and nations both inside and outside the Commonwealth were governed by reasonable individuals who respected molecular law. Cities occasionally attempted to pass a local ordinance easing some Commonwealth proscription, thinking they might develop a trade advantage…. Or corporations would push the boundaries of the law to impress a restless client. … Or one of the nations outside the Commonwealth might be persuaded to attempt the development of illicit Makers.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	And why? Citizens of the Commonwealth had everything they needed: perfect health; perfect bodies; safe environments; fine homes; family life; entertainment; art; opportunities to travel… . They ought to want for nothing. But of course there would always be a certain percentage of the dissatisfied. Snakes in the Garden of Eden.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox Jiang-Tibayan was one of the worst. To even </span><span class="none2">conceive </span><span class="none">of creating something like Nikko was repugnant. To have the talent to persuade a timid Congress to approve such a scheme was diabolical. But Kirstin had made Fox pay for it in the years since. She’d had him to trial three times on marginal-tolerance technologies; and charged him in at least a dozen other cases that were settled out of court. The harassment had worked. Fox had become a conservative designer—at least on the surface.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	And yet—Kirstin’s lips turned in a sly, feral smile—she owed Fox a debt of gratitude. Without the research permit that permitted Nikko’s existence, she would never have been able to inspire the wave of public outrage that had carried her into the office of Chief of Police.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She chuckled softly to herself. And Fox had given her Nikko too.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko wasn’t human. He was a frantic animal, amoral in his pursuit of continued life. Kirstin found him exciting, in much the same way she might find it exciting to toy with a panther. Taming it. Controlling it. There were so few challenges left. Dealing with the likes of Nikko kept her wits and her instincts sharp for the greater game of preserving the Commonwealth.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Too bad his time was almost up. She’d miss him. She’d feel his loss … the same way she might feel the loss of a favorite pet.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin wasn’t half through with her backlog of calls when a new one came in under priority code. It was from Allende, the Director of Internal Security for the Commonwealth Police. She frowned. Allende wasn’t one of her people. He was a Congressional appointee; a small-minded man with a tendency to work behind the back of the Chief of Police. Kirstin generally had a good relationship with the Congressional body. She’d approved of the Reform Act, which had eliminated the presidential office, decentralizing its authority across Congress. But at times there were conflicts.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	While the senators were occasionally called upon to clarify existing laws, or grant approval to marginal tolerance research proposals, or to determine the eligibility of a state petitioning for Commonwealth status, their primary duty was to oversee the workings of the police. For that reason they occasionally felt the need to assert their independence from the Police Chief. The creation of a watchdog officer in the person of Allende had been their most recent rebuke. Kirstin found the situation grating. She needed to trust her officers—all of them—and she did not trust Allende. She’d been angling to get rid of him for months.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Proceed, Allende,” she said, wondering which of her officers he was harassing this time.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The atrium acted as an interface, processing the incoming signal and feeding it directly to her brain so that she “heard” Allende’s voice, though her ear sensed nothing.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Chief Adair. We’ve got a problem in our research division. Secure subject.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“So come.” She issued him a formal invitation; Allende’s ghost arrived a few seconds later. Ensconced in her atrium, nothing he said or did could be directly detected from the outside.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He appeared in the chair Nikko had occupied: a stout, dark-skinned man with hard eyes and heavy hands, dressed in the black tunic and shorts of a police uniform. By his stiff posture, she knew he didn’t want to be here.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He nodded without smiling. “We have a serious problem.” His gaze wandered nervously. Sweat actually began to appear on his pudgy cheeks. “Jensen Van Ness, one of our senior researchers, physically resident in Southwest Australia, used his security clearance to access the Bohr files. He synthesized the Bohr Maker, destroyed the file, then skipped. That was yesterday. Almost thirty-two hours ago now. I’ve tracked him through the Gates. He left the Commonwealth last night, for Southern India … or perhaps the Sunda Free Trade Zone. Of course the dogs are on it. All Gates are aware of his profile. Sector commanders have been alerted and decontamination procedures are being prepared.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I expect to have him in custody within the hour. In the meantime I think we should review our internal security arrangements. This incident only proves what I’ve said in the past: our researchers are allowed far too many liberties with classified files.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin listened in silent fury while Allende’s spiel ran out. The Bohr Maker. Hadn’t she warned the Congressional Committee on Molecular Law time and time again to get rid of that obscene file? But Van Ness had always gotten in her way. Now he was gone and the trail was cold and Allende was sitting here, trying to shift the blame to her account.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She leaned forward, fixing him with an icy glare. “You pompous bastard. You tried to handle this on your own, didn’t you? How many hours has it been since you knew Van Ness was gone?” Allende seemed to shrink as every muscle in his body tensed. </span><span class="none2">“How many hours?” </span><span class="none">Kirstin snapped.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Ten.” He sat up a little straighter. “It’s been ten hours. My staff has pursued every investigative channel in that time and we’ll have him in custody—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You didn’t think I needed to know this immediately? The Bohr Maker was stolen, and you didn’t inform me?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“My staff—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You wanted to bring him in on your own, didn’t you? You wanted to grab a little glory. But you’ve put the police in jeopardy, instead. Van Ness possesses a terrible weapon. And because he destroyed the file, we can’t duplicate it. We can’t use it against him. But you didn’t think I needed to know.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“We’ll have him within the hour,” Allende insisted.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But Kirstin knew he wouldn’t have come to her unless the trail was stone-cold. “You’d better bring him home within an hour, Allende, or I’ll have your head.”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	After Allende’s ghost had gone, Kirstin abandoned the rest of her calls to the holding tank, changed into police uniform, and headed for the office.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The Bohr Maker. Her lips twisted as she thought about it. It was an obscenity before nature. An affront to the Mother. An evolutionary bomb that could explode in the body of Gaia, destroying the natural order, ripping through the soul of a four-and-a-half-billion-year-old goddess.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Leander had understood that. He’d never copied the Maker. He’d kept it to himself. He’d respected and loved the Mother, just as Kirstin had, and he’d used the Maker only in her defense. Leander Bohr had been a great man. But life as a fugitive had begun to weigh on him. He’d begun to talk to Kirstin of abandoning the Mother, of using the Maker to create an artificial world far from the sun, just large enough for the two of them….</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin had betrayed him to the police, feeling sure the Maker would be destroyed. But Van Ness had fought against that and now the Maker was loose again.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Van Ness didn’t possess Leander’s ethical sense. In his hands, the Maker might soon be running wild.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She found Allende physically present at the office. He told her: “The dogs in Sunda have scented a peculiar line of sub-Makers that may be associated with Bohr’s Maker.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“There are records on this,” Kirstin said. “Can you confirm the link?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“We’re working on it.” His eyes seemed to glaze over as he accessed police files through his atrium.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Leander had designed his Maker to create molecular machines less sophisticated than itself. These sub-Makers could be sent out into the world as microscopic information-gathering systems. Of the millions of copies it might generate, most would be lost, and after a preprogrammed period of time they would self-destruct. But a few would drift home to the Maker. The lineage of these molecular complexes was well-known.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Allende’s attention returned to the real world. “With minor discrepancies, they match the patterns of known Bohr sub-Makers. Van Ness is in Sunda.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin smiled. So the thief hadn’t left Earth. That was something—though he might be hard to find in Sunda, a primitive political entity that existed outside the network of nations comprising the Earth-bound members of the Commonwealth. Some nonmember states objected to police activities within their territories … not that they could stop an investigation. The Commonwealth Police recognized no political boundaries in the enforcement of molecular law. How could they? Illegal technologies weren’t made safer by being developed outside the Commonwealth. And if a feral technology superseded the police arsenal and made the cops obsolete, who would be left to enforce the law? No one. The stability and security of the Commonwealth could vanish—literally—overnight.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	So the police recognized no territorial limitations, and consequently, even the most disaffected member-states remained firmly within the coalition. They had no realistic option. Secession wouldn’t gain them technological freedom, but it </span><span class="none2">would </span><span class="none">deprive them of a political voice within the Congress of the Commonwealth.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin called up a chair. She dropped slowly into it, facing Allende, her arms crossed over her chest while she waited for his hour to run down. In an hour she’d be rid of him. She’d dismiss him for dereliction of duty—and let the Congress try to argue with her!</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She waited, watching him with a raptor’s intense stare as he continued his investigation. He worked without console or voice, his attention fading in and out as he consulted with his officers through his atrium. As time grew short, the sheen of sweat on his face grew heavier. He glanced at Kirstin more and more often, with the white-eyed look of a frightened herbivore. His reactions actually gave her physical pleasure, and she grinned at him, which only fed his nervous state.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Then, with only three minutes left on his time he suddenly sagged forward, expelling a mighty breath of relief. Kirstin scowled. He noted the expression and responded with a triumphant grin. “The dogs have found Van Ness.”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A few minutes later, Kirstin stood between the huge animals. It was early morning in Sunda, and she waded hip-deep in the crystal-clear waters of a river that flowed beneath the decaying hulk of an old warehouse—or at least that was the illusion generated for her by the atrium of the alpha dog.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She’d gone Earthside as a ghost, to observe the progress of the investigation. The dog’s atrium had reconstructed for her the smell of the falling rain, the sound of treading feet in the structure overhead, the taste of the slightly bitter water, and the feel of the river’s current as it washed past her legs. She gazed at the young boy who clung to one of the building’s vertical supports, seeing him just as the dogs saw him with their artificial eyes. But the boy couldn’t see her.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nevertheless, she scowled at him, thinking </span><span class="none2">Parasite. </span><span class="none">He was one of the millions of unwanted children infesting this backward country, plaguing the city, a scourge of human rats. An older girl had abandoned him beneath the structure when the dogs showed up. She’d screamed in fear, then shinnied up a rope that hung from a trapdoor, before slamming it shut behind her. Kirstin could still hear her screaming, somewhere in the structure overhead.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The boy—he couldn’t be more than six or seven—was trying to hide from the dogs behind the column, but his hands and legs were shaking so badly he kept slipping and splashing into the water. Kirstin grunted in satisfaction. The police dogs were designed to intimidate. They were a terrible derivation of mastiff and Great Dane. Their huge square heads reached a man’s shoulder and they massed nearly eighty kilograms apiece. The Sunda government permitted them in its territory in exchange for certain trade concessions—primarily molecular technologies that kept the present rulers in power.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin shifted her gaze back to the body of Jensen Van Ness. He’d been secured to the riverbed—sometime yesterday, judging by the body’s state of decomposition. The microscopic Makers that kept the water clean had already dissolved a good twenty percent of the flesh, converting it into edible fluff; white ribs glinted brightly through tattered muscle. The skull was almost completely exposed. The body had been stripped.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She watched thoughtfully as a bit of fluff floated downriver. The current swept it up against a long boom constructed of old plastic bottles that had been cut in half. Many of the bottles were full of fluff. Kirstin glanced at the body again, then chuckled in grim amusement. Rats would eat anything.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She ordered one of the dogs underwater, then dove after it, down to the river bottom to get a closer look at Van Ness’s body. The atrium collected enough data through the dog’s eyes to extrapolate a palpable model. She was able to probe the skull with her fingers. Van Ness had suffered a massive head wound.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She surfaced, throwing her head back in a great arc to clear the water from her eyes. The drops splashed against the structure overhead, but they left no wet marks. These could be added, but on an investigation she preferred the environmental mock-up to accurately reflect the outside world. The only phony thing she wanted in it was her own apparent presence.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She sniffed the air, searching through the dog’s enhanced senses for a trace of the Bohr Maker. The body was free of it; Van Ness had not inoculated himself. Then where had he kept the stolen sample? Had he forced someone else to carry it for him? (Someone who objected?)</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She waded through the water, the dogs at her heels, until she stood at the foot of the column, staring up at the boy. What had the child been doing down here? One of the dogs stood on its hind legs, stretching its head upward until it could run its sensitive nostrils across the boy’s leg. The child moaned in fear, but the dog found nothing. It dropped back down into the water.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Yet the Bohr Maker still existed. Somewhere, someone had a sample of it because every now and then as the dogs patrolled the riverfront they’d detected its telltale sub-Makers. Leander had designed the Maker to be elusive, almost undetectable without a sample of the infected cells. Leander had been a genius.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She turned, ready to wade back to the concrete riverbank when the trapdoor opened. The dogs turned around.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A swollen, luminescent yellow face with a great hooked nose and comically rounded cheeks looked through the opening. </span><span class="none2">Nature stop us, </span><span class="none">Kirstin thought in disgust. In the celestial cities of the conservative Commonwealth, mutagenic Makers had long ago been outlawed. But they were still common in the Free Trade Zones, generally used against some poor, unsuspecting sap for the amusement of minor powers. So long as the mutations were harmless and limited to somatic cells, Kirstin had agreed the police should tolerate them—for diplomatic reasons.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She started to whistle for the dogs when suddenly she noticed their tense posture, their flaring nostrils. Had they picked up a trace of the Bohr Maker? From this goon?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	One of the dogs growled and surged through the water, then leapt for the open trapdoor. The goon ducked out of sight while Kirstin looked on, laughing in delighted disbelief. Surely the beast was too large to fit through the opening? But no. It caught itself with its forepaws and hung dangling, its head and shoulders through the hole. Its mate came up underneath it, reared up on its hind legs and offered its great head as a platform. The first dog kicked off and vanished inside the building.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Screams rang out overhead, the cries of children shrieking in terror. The pounding of running feet on unpadded floors rolled like thunder. Kirstin slogged through the water, grabbed the rope, and pulled herself up after the first dog.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Back on Castle, Kirstin’s corporeal self sat with Allende, reviewing Van Ness’s communications log. He’d entertained a lot of visitors. Some of them as famous as himself. Others unknown. She had officers tracking down the records of everyone who’d visited him in the last three years. “No way he did this alone,” she muttered.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Allende grunted agreement. “It’s not in his psychological profile.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	In a way, this exercise was a waste of time. They’d know who his accomplice was as soon as his atrium notebook was removed from the body and translated.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She left the records, to stand by the tall glass windows, her gaze fixed on the dark line of the Imperial Highway.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Behind her, she could hear a sudden, harsh intake of breath from Allende. She turned slowly, to meet his narrowed gaze. “We’ve just arrested two youths who may have been involved in Van Ness’s murder,” he told her. Then his lip curled. “Doesn’t sound like we’ll get any leads out of them, though. It seems to have been a simple mugging. When the Islamic Resurgence turned up, they dumped the body in the river.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Nature save us! How long until that notebook is ready to read?”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin’s ghost followed the dogs through the city’s rain-soaked, labyrinthine streets as they tracked the various scents of the children who’d inhabited the warehouse. They’d brought down six so far; none had shown any trace of the Maker. The rest had disappeared like rats into the maze of crumbling buildings.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	At mid-morning she decided to return to the site of the warehouse. The air stank of smoke all up and down the riverfront. She looked ahead for the warehouse. At first she thought the dogs had become disoriented. Then she realized the collapsed heap of charred girders and melted plastic slag was all that remained of the building she’d visited earlier that morning.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Apparently the Islamic Resurgence didn’t approve of squatters who attracted the attention of police dogs.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Now here’s an interesting name,” Allende said.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin’s original self broke off her review of the ghost’s memories and allowed Allende to shunt an entry from Van Ness’s visitor log to her atrium.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“One Sy Gaudreau.” Allende read the entry aloud. “Affiliation: RedCam Corporate Group, Farsight City. An ‘historian.’” He pronounced the word as if it smelled of decay. “You know the kind? They dig up dirt on corporations, then expose them, or blackmail them.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I know the kind,” Kirstin said. Nikko was the best of them. “Alert the Gates to his physical description. And trace that address. It’s probably a fake. RedCam’s too conservative to tolerate an historian. Dissect the plexus. See if those calls weren’t routed from somewhere else.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	His gaze shifted minutely. The order had been sent. Kirstin had just turned back to the window when a long, low whistle escaped Allende. “Data finally coming in from Van Ness’s notebook. Love and Nature, that bastard was </span><span class="none2">weird. </span><span class="none">Uh-oh. Uh-oh. Oh sweet mercy, you were right about that fake address.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin glared at him, one eyebrow raised in irritation.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Allende grinned back, his pudgy face twisted in a simian leer. “You’re going to love this, boss. Van Ness recorded the name of his accomplice. One Sandor Jiang-Tibayan. Out of Summer House.”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	For a moment Kirstin was struck dumb. Then fury began to burn: a slow, deep fire under her heart. </span><span class="none2">Jiang-Tibayan. </span><span class="none">Sandor she’d never heard of. It didn’t matter. There were only two Jiang-Tibayans who amounted to anything, and Fox had never had a criminal mind. So it was Nikko. He was probably using this Sandor as a mule, playing games with Van Ness behind her back. She’d been holding her breath unconsciously. Now she let it go. Her gaze focused on Allende. “Alert the Gates to the profile of this Jiang-Tibayan. Issue a warrant to the local police force in Sunda. Send it through our ambassador, so they know we mean business. I want this mule arrested!”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Then she called the mausoleum at Castle and made reservations. “I’m going to Summer House,” she told Allende. “In hard copy.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Physical travel between the celestial cities was uncomfortable and dull and could consume weeks, or even months of time. Most citizens never bothered. Those who did travel generally transferred only their personas, downloading them into duplicate bodies kept stored in distant city mausoleums: hard copy.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin had accumulated hard copies of herself in mausoleums throughout the Commonwealth, most of them never used and known only to herself… like the one at Summer House. She would download her persona, and she would be there. She’d have Nikko under her hands.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“We have officers at Summer House who can handle the investigation,” Allende was saying. “There’s no need for you to go.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Oh yes there is.” This was personal. She wanted to take Nikko out herself.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She launched herself out of the office, and headed for the mausoleum. She’d have to put this body on ice before bringing up the one on Summer House. It was a Commonwealth covenant that only one physical copy could be active at any given time. That would take half an hour, at least. And another half hour to awaken the body on Summer House.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But then she’d be able to hunt down Nikko and take him, face-to-face.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p></div></div></div></div></body></html>
