<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta name="generator" content="http://calibre-ebook.com"/>
    <title>Linda Nagata - Nanotech Succession 01</title>
    <meta name="author" content="The Bohr Maker"/>
    <meta name="creation-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta name="revision-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre1">
<div class="calibre1"><div class="s2"><h2 class="calibre4" id="calibre_pb_17">   <span class="none3">CHAPTER</span></h2><h2 class="calibre5"></h2></div><div class="calibre1"><div class="s3"><h3 class="calibre6"> <span class="none3">17</span></h3><h3 class="calibre6"></h3></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> </span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	As Chief of Police it was Kirstin’s prerogative to fill all the executive positions on her staff, save one—the Director of Internal Security. Allende was a Congressional appointee; his loyalty was given to the Committee on Molecular Law and Police Matters, and not to the force itself. So it came as no surprise to Kirstin when the Congressional dog finally howled to his masters. Indeed, she’d anticipated it. The time was right to bring the matter of the Bohr Maker to the attention of a wider audience.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	So she took her place willingly at the witness table in the Congressional hearing room, her expression attentively polite as the obscure senator chairing the investigation finally came round to his point.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Chief Adair, this committee has been charged with investigating the report of a serious breach in police security. We’ve asked you to attend today to confirm or deny whether such an incident has taken place.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin nodded slowly, still absorbing an abstract of the senator’s biography from her atrium. Congressional representatives could serve only a single, one-year term in the Commonwealth offices on Castle. They were as ephemeral as celebrities, and Kirstin rarely came to know them as individuals. According to his bio, this one was a conservative corporate member out of Julevy-On, a professed staunch supporter of molecular law enforcement who’d voted to her direction three of the last four times she’d bothered to make her opinion known in the capitol rooms. She anticipated an easy afternoon.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Yes, Senator,” she said. “An incident has occurred.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He nodded, as if to congratulate himself for having gone straight to the source by summoning her here. “Would you please explain the exact nature of the incident?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Yes, sir.” She’d be happy to do that. The raw facts would be enough to frighten these senators and buy her a free hand in the investigation. “You may be familiar with a device popularly known as the Bohr Maker. It’s an enhancing Maker that was retrieved from the body of the convicted criminal, Leander Bohr. It’s an adaptive artificial intelligence, imbued with Bohr’s talents in molecular design. It will modify the body of its host, allowing that individual to become a literal molecular factory, capable of producing Makers for nearly any function, including camouflage, espionage, and assault. Although it’s an antique, the police have never been able to devise a Maker of similar talents, because to do so would require the revocation of current statutes limiting the independence of artificial intelligences.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The committee chair frowned, his expression one of open concern. “So in effect you’re saying the Bohr Maker is an illegal artificial intelligence.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“That’s right. Its capacity for independent action exceeds statute limits.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“So it’s smarter than police Makers.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Intelligence is a thorny issue, Senator, intelligent behavior being so dependent on natural instinct, which this Maker lacks. Let us say instead that it would be more </span><span class="none2">adaptive </span><span class="none">than police Makers.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“And better armed.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“It’s possible,” she admitted, with deliberate reluctance. She didn’t want the populace to think she lacked confidence. They would be voting for her again in a year.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Could you explain that answer?” the senator asked.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Of course. The Bohr Maker has no core personality and therefore it has no inherent ambitions or instincts. Its developmental direction is determined entirely by the personality of its host. If it attaches itself to a warrior, it will develop a warlike demeanor.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“And has that happened, Chief Adair?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Our best evidence indicates not. On the contrary, the Maker seems to have taken up residence in the mind of an illiterate prostitute.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	There was a titter from the gallery—a small corporeal audience, mostly students come to observe government in action. Of course the electronic audience would be immensely larger.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin waited for the sounds of amusement to subside before she continued. “The lifestyle of this prostitute has led her to instinctively hide from the police. She’s used the Maker’s talents to aid her in this process, making her apprehension difficult.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Isn’t it true that your one attempt to arrest her resulted in disaster?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin smiled indulgently. “Police operations are always unpredictable, sir. Our investigation led us to the location of the suspect. Because it was in a territory outside the Commonwealth, it was legally necessary for us to inform the local government of our activities ahead of time. Unfortunately, a sense of nationalism afflicted the local police force. They resented our intrusion, and sought to settle the problem themselves, in their own way. Their interference prevented us from making the arrest.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“But isn’t it true that this ‘illiterate prostitute’ incapacitated over twenty police dogs?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	There was a gasp from the gallery, and for the first time Kirstin felt a flash of annoyance. That bastard Allende hadn’t left anything out when he’d squealed to his Senate masters.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Isn’t this true?” the Senator pressed.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Yes, sir. It is true. The dogs were drugged into a temporary state of somnolence.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“They were made to sleep?” Again, a titter from the audience.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Yes.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“And where is this illiterate prostitute now?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“We don’t know, Senator. She could be anywhere.”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	In hindsight, the flaw in the arrest procedure was obvious. They’d pushed Phousita too hard. They’d forced her to strike back. Like a game of coevolution, when predator shapes prey and prey shapes predator, they’d forced her to adopt an aggressive defense. And now that she’d become acquainted with her capacities, would she maintain her newly acquired aggressive nature? Or would she revert to her inoffensive former self?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	To answer that question, Kirstin had detained Zeke Choy once again, questioning him extensively on the subject of Phousita’s personality. His final comment still haunted her: “</span><span class="none2">I can tell you what she was like. But that isn’t going to mean much anymore. Because when I knew her she wasn’t a messianic healer. When I knew her, she hadn’t</span><span class="none"> </span><span class="none2">yet seen her family burned alive. When I knew her, she feared police dogs. I don’t know her now.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	Phousita had literally disappeared. The dogs could recover no trace of her. The Gates reported no sign of her. Even the rumor mills in the Spill were helpless, running on false, frantic tales that failed to explain the fate of their vanished sorceress.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	The trail was worse than cold. It was nonexistent.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Kirstin thought of her days with Leander Bohr. Leander had always used the Maker righteously, in the service of the Goddess. He’d never used it to violate the body of the Mother, or sought to change her natural order. There’d been no harm in him. But how many people could she say that about?</p><p class="calibre2"> 	She’d dreamed of Nikko this morning. In the dream she’d entered his apartment at Summer House. Not alone this time, but with a contingent of officers as backup. They’d all worn isolation suits. They’d bombed the room with assault Makers, the best in the police arsenal, programmed to destroy any Makers not bearing the latest police identity code. Nikko had been hanging by his long blue toes upside down in a tree. He’d laughed at her. Then he’d waved his hand in the air. A moment and her isolation suit began to dissolve. He waved his hand again. She felt her body changing. When she raised her fist against him in a gesture of defiance, she was aghast to find it armored in enameled blue.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	She did not believe Nikko was dead. Somehow, somewhere, his consciousness must still exist.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Somehow, somewhere, he must be pursuing Phousita just as she was.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	She no longer believed Phousita was still in the Spill. Messiahs were notoriously difficult creatures to hide, yet Phousita could not be tracked even through rumors.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	So Phousita had left the Spill, and that meant she could be anywhere, in contact with anyone.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Fear was an emotion Kirstin had not experienced in many years. It caught her by surprise when it came. When she realized what this pounding heart, this fluttering gut meant, she reacted in irritation. She was too old for fear! If she couldn’t find Phousita directly, then she’d have to do it in a roundabout way—by finding Nikko first, whatever was left of him.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	To Summer House, then.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	She prepared her ghost, and departed.</p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Over three minutes elapsed in objective time, but to her it seemed only a moment before she arrived in the atrium of the police captain on Summer House—an undistinguished administrator who had command of a handful of on-site officers. She continued to consult his biography. The captain had been born in the EC sixty-seven years ago and so he had no natal corporate affiliation. He’d been assigned to Summer House for the past year, and was presently due to move on.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Have you enjoyed your stay here at Summer House?” she asked him.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He seemed taken aback by the question. Several seconds passed before he came up with an answer. “It’s been a nice assignment,” he managed at last.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Corporate membership in Summer House is notoriously difficult for outsiders to obtain,” she said. “Yet many of our officers who’ve served here have been offered that privilege at the end of their tour of duty.” She let him think about that, while she watched the anxiety grow in his eyes. “Such a situation naturally leads us to wonder what favors our officers might be doing for the Board of Directors here, to earn the privilege of corporate membership.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	His cheeks seemed to go hollow. “The ranks of the Commonwealth Police are full of many fine individuals. Just because the House recognizes that, it doesn’t imply a crime.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Have you been offered a corporate membership?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sweat actually appeared on his brow. “I have been,” he said stiffly. “I haven’t decided whether to accept it.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Hadn’t decided? Right. It amazed her that such a transparent man had risen so far in the ranks of the police. But if his loyalties had already been taken over by the House, she would need to find another mule for her investigation.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“There are some things I’d like to look into here,” she told him. “But I know you’re much too busy to assist me. I’ll summon one of your officers instead.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Yes, ma’am.” He seemed more nervous than ever.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She turned her attention away from him, to scan the personnel roster, checking the political backgrounds of the on-site officers. She moved from one entry to the next in growing dismay. </span><span class="none2">Every one of them </span><span class="none">harbored radical sympathies! Apparently the House had been exerting considerable influence over posting procedures.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She made no effort to hide her anger from the police captain. But apparently he didn’t trust his comrades in her presence, because he stepped forward with a political solution.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Might I suggest instead … well, it sounds like an insult, but you could access the House plexus in complete privacy if you rode one of the animals.” Kirstin must have looked puzzled, because the captain immediately added an explanation. “Monkeys and birds and such,” he said. “The House has doctored a few of ‘em with slave atriums. You can ride inside their heads and send ‘em where you want to go. And of course you’ll have full access to the plexus.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I’m familiar with slave atriums,” Kirstin said. “They’ve been used by corporate pirates for decades in the rape of Mother Earth.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Yes, ma’am.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“But I suppose the House uses them only for research.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“We’re far from the Mother here, ma’am.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin raised an annoyed eyebrow. Yet the proposal intrigued her; it would allow her to examine the House plexus without interference. And despite the captain’s fears, she had no interest just now in investigating the disloyalties of her forces on Summer House.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“We’ve all kinds of animals,” the police captain said, sensing her interest. “But the baboons are best. Big and smart. Let me roll a catalog for you.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Data fed into Kirstin’s mind. It felt as if she were remembering in a linear way the highlights of a long list of animal hosts. “What’s that?” she asked suddenly, and the roll paused. “Back search for Jiang-Tibayan,” she said, and found herself considering a baboon by the name of Sax.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Oh,” the officer said, as if Kirstin had committed a social blunder. “Some of the monkeys are, well… kind of like pets, I guess. See, it says in the listing, that one belongs to Sandor Jiang-Tibayan.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Not anymore,” she pointed out coldly. “I’ll have that one.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Ma’am—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She didn’t stay to hear the captain’s objections. The routine was easy enough to adopt. She issued a code for the monkey’s address, and downloaded.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sax woke up with a start. He’d been sleeping with his head on a female’s rump, but when Kirstin entered his atrium, he stood up abruptly, stretching like a dog and sniffing expectantly at the forest air. Awaiting an old master? Kirstin wondered.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The baboon pair was at rest on what might have been a horizontal section of heartwood, part of the supporting “bones” of Summer House. The humus-covered surface was heavily forested and oppressively hot under a shimmering blue swath of artificial sky that hung not a hundred meters overhead. Sax sat back down on his haunches and started grooming the female.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin took a few minutes to accustom herself to her new sensory environment. She enjoyed sight of a human quality while scenting with a baboon’s skill—a fascinating change. The captivating odor of the female mixed with intoxicating vapors from overripe fruit, and a heavy, pervasive sweetness so intense that it must be issuing from some tree in full flower. Other scents she couldn’t even guess at, because though the baboon’s perceptions belonged to her, its knowledge did not. Not yet. She sought an atrium notebook, wondering if it might house a dictionary that she could subsume.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The atrium notebook.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">Sandor’s </span><span class="none">atrium notebook. The boy had been guileless by all reports, yet devoted to Nikko. What personal information had he seen fit to record?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She summoned the index and began to look through the listings. She found the dictionary. And a file on the behavior of the baboons (they were an artificial descendant of an African species of forest baboon). There was an extensive collection of private material: reminiscences, poems, descriptive writings on the forest, half-formed ideas for research, molecular histories, a calendar. And several short files with peculiar names: </span><span class="none2">Bird Park, Rat Heaven, Budding Bears, Eve’s Wall…. </span><span class="none">And then: </span><span class="none2">Nikko’s Score.</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	Kirstin opened this last file. It was another list of similar nonsense: <span class="none2">Lizard Fruit, Bat Berries, Fish Stones…. </span><span class="none">Each entry was accompanied by a brief description, as </span><span class="none2">Solar Flies: observed hatch out from grapelike fruit cluster on seed tree in outer forest, prox. 400m S. tether center-point, 60m W. Silver wings unfurl like butterfly, but crawl, don’t fly. Designer: C. Furui. Background check fails! Christy never got approval on solar flies! No genesis. Nikko, you liar.</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	But the other entries had apparently been corroborated. Animals sprouting from plants, or hatching from rocks, or emerging from heartwood. Biogenesis of adult organisms.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Nikko and Sandor seemed to have enjoyed a running competition to see who could locate the most sites of active genesis. Why not simply consult corporate records? Kirstin wondered. She queried Summer House. But no matter how she phrased her question, the House denied her any information on biogenesis. <span class="none2">Corporate privilege, </span><span class="none">she was told. The House was not at all impressed by her status as an investigating police officer. </span><span class="none2">All queries into this subject must first be authorized by corporate officials, or information will be denied.</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	Corporate privilege. Limit the available information, and locating sites of biogenesis became a kind of Easter egg hunt. She reviewed the list again. <span class="none2">Eve’s Wall </span><span class="none">sounded provocative: </span><span class="none2">Evita Rodriguez doubled herself here! Sax scented her the day before she emerged. This has to be worth two points. More, if you’re a cop. </span><span class="none">But an entry under a later date dampened Kirstin’s interest: </span><span class="none2">Board of Directors furious; site dormant.</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	Amongst the other entries, <span class="none2">Bird Park </span><span class="none">was closest. </span><span class="none2">Chandelier tree, protected from predation. Adults of various avian species observed emerging from genesis pods. Nearly inaccessible; birds safe from predators while plumage dries. Designer: P. Cartmin.</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	Kirstin decided to have a look at it. She was wondering how to steer Sax in the proper direction when the animal stood up again and started walking slowly down the branch.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Kirstin had never utilized a slave atrium before. Never had she encountered such an intimate form of transportation. She experienced the play of the baboon’s strong, lean muscles as it walked on all fours down the forest highway. The soft, cool feel of the humus under powerful hands. The rough, gnarly texture of bark against furred skin as Sax clambered over a tree root. The grunt of the female as she finally got up and began to follow. Fascinating.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Sax jumped suddenly, taking Kirstin by surprise. He leapt off the heartwood and caught a large branch heavy with fruit. The branch grew from a tree rooted in a meadow some fifty feet below. Sax plucked one of the fruits and took a bite out of it while the branch bobbed and swayed under his weight. Kirstin recognized the taste and texture of mango.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	She felt herself being drawn in by the charm of this place. Forcefully, she reminded herself that this forest was not the Mother. It was an artificial construct, full of artificial life, designed by Fox Jiang-Tibayan who thought he could improve upon the Goddess.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	She slipped into command mode and tried to forcefully guide the monkey’s limbs toward Bird Park. The method worked for about three seconds. She got Sax to drop the mango seed. He looked up, and reached out with a monkey paw for an overhead branch. But she overestimated his reach and the poor animal’s hand closed on nothing. Sax fell forward, tumbling out of the tree. Kirstin fled command mode, returning control of the body to the monkey. Sax recovered instantly, catching a lower branch in his paws, then clambering back up to the female who was screeching at him from the heartwood.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Kirstin sighed internally. Obviously, the monkey should guide itself. But how to get around? She examined the system. Between passive observer and active command modes there lay an intermediate level of communication with the monkey. This would allow all specific movements to come under the baboon’s control, but the rider could influence the monkey to move in a desired direction, or even to proceed to a preprogrammed destination. How thoroughly had Sandor trained this monkey?</p><p class="calibre2"> 	<span class="none2">Bird Park, </span><span class="none">Kirstin urged experimentally. And to her surprise, Sax began to move. </span><span class="none2">Bird Park, </span><span class="none">she thought again, more passionately this time, and Sax began to scamper along the heartwood with the happy abandon of a child at play. </span><span class="none2">Bird Park! </span><span class="none">The female pursued, slapping at his rump whenever he allowed her to catch up.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Along the heartwood they ran, for nearly a quarter mile before it finally branched. Sax took the smaller fork, followed it for only a few hundred yards until they’d cleared the patch of sky just overhead, then he started to climb. Once Kirstin ordered him to stop, so she could gaze at the glowing blue oval, one of hundreds of little bits of sky that brought light to all levels of the vertical forest. This close, Kirstin could see the faint shapes of aquatic creatures moving inside the light. Curious, she consulted the House. Yes, the skies were also aquatic habitats, populated with organisms adapted to the bright, warm waters of tropical seas. Artificial constructions in an artificial world.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">Bird Park! </span><span class="none">she commanded Sax, and the monkey sprang upward.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	They climbed beyond the sky. A meadow grew on its upper surface, cut through by a tiny stream that fell in a misty spray of water to a clear pool hollowed out of a branch of heartwood. There was no visible outlet from the pool, so Kirstin surmised that the water drained into the heartwood’s transit system.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	They went on.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The forest changed gradually as they climbed, becoming wetter until Sax began to slip on the mosses that clothed the branches of the trees. A breeze started to blow, and tendrils of mist floated past. The breeze freshened, setting the branches swaying slowly up and down.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	What happened when a tree fell? Kirstin wondered. She’d seen the trunks of small trees that had fallen, clothed in moss and fungi and epiphytic plants, wedged against the roots or branches of other trees. But what happened when a forest giant, rooted in the heartwood, toppled? Or was the House too young to have ever experienced that particular disaster?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The girth of the branches Sax chose to climb had thinned. They’d gone up as high as they could on a tree whose canopy blazed in orange flowers. Sax looked down. Kirstin saw a thin weave of branches below him, and then a route of heartwood, at least three hundred feet below. She quailed. Sax leapt.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin wanted to close her eyes and scream, but of course neither response was possible. The monkey remained undisturbed. It caught a flexible green branch no thicker than Kirstin’s finger, and hung on to it, bobbing up and down like a child at the end of a bell rope. His presence startled a flock of large fruit bats that had been roosting on the pendulous branches. They flapped away with cumbersome strokes, disappearing briefly behind a thin veil of leaves before they emerged into the open air, wheeling in great circles as if they couldn’t decide where to go. Beyond them Kirstin could see the window-perforated wall of the apartment complex.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sax climbed the pendulous branch. It was part of a tree that grew upside down, hanging like an elegant chandelier on a trunk barbed with thorns and glinting with a moist gel. The trunk was suspended from heartwood; it looked to be at least two hundred meters long. The branches were all pendulous, whip-thin green cords like the one Sax climbed. They were sparsely leafed but heavily in fruit with green, gourdlike pods that ranged from the size of a fist to the size of a coconut. A few of the pods had turned red. Sax climbed until he drew even with a large green pod. Then he leapt through space once again, grabbed a branch, and sat down upon the pod like a child seated on a swing. He didn’t seem inclined to journey further.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">Bird Park? </span><span class="none">Kirstin wondered, but of course Sax didn’t respond.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	If this was Bird Park, it certainly didn’t deserve its name. There were almost no birds around. Just a pair of little finches in dull green plumage squabbling over a perch on a tiny red pod. Kirstin watched them, and after a moment she noticed that the red pod had a crack in it. Another pod, farther down on the same branch, had already split open, its shell peeling back like the petals of a flower. A bird hung inside it. A little green bird. It was suspended by its feet, twitching occasionally, its wings making frantic flapping motions every few seconds. Its plumage looked unkempt, somewhat wet and sticky. At first Kirstin thought it had been trapped by the flower/pod, which must be of a carnivorous nature, and if she sat here the whole slow afternoon, she would see the petals close over the sorry victim. But no. As she watched, the bird’s movements became more vigorous. Soon it was swaying back and forth as if it hung from a trapeze, and finally it dropped free, flapped its wings, and shot into the forest, the other small birds in noisy pursuit.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	So this was a biogenesis tree. Kirstin watched the red pod with the crack in it for over an hour. When the flower finally opened, it revealed a tiny brown hummingbird. The creature revved its wings for a few minutes, then flew off into the forest.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She watched it go, her mind troubled by the implications. Automated biogenesis. An artificial world that could bring forth its own life, almost instantly, apparently without immediate supervision. Dangerous. But not illegal, so long as the biological machinery wasn’t developing the design. That would be a violation of Commonwealth covenants. Nonhuman intelligences could not be self-aware or act without strict direction. This was probably just a manufacturing process, under strict control. And yet, and yet…</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She finally pinpointed the source of her growing alarm. This talent had no purpose. Not here on Summer House anyway, where the forest community was reportedly self-sustaining or so the line of propaganda went. Then where?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The answer came to her immediately: anywhere; everywhere.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	If the corporation wanted to duplicate the House, what would be the best way to go about it? Follow the same process of trial and error, setback and failure that had led to the original? Or create a program employing all that had been learned in the design of Summer House? Could all of that be coiled into one package? An egg that could hatch a world? Delivered by automated machinery.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Another thought swiftly followed; an even darker thought. In all that great, winding, cross-referenced chain of data, might the pattern and persona of one Nikko Jiang-Tibayan be hidden?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The possibility left her oddly calm. She could feel the hand of the Mother guiding her. </span><span class="none2">Caution, </span><span class="none">the Goddess seemed to whisper. </span><span class="none2">Move slowly. </span><span class="none">Indeed. She must not alert Fox to her suspicions. He must have no chance to erase evidence before she could investigate. But how to conduct an investigation? The staff on Summer House could not be trusted. No, a new staff </span><span class="none2">must </span><span class="none">be brought in.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She would route a police ship to Summer House, one with a proven commander. It might be several weeks before the new staff could reach the city, but the evidence would wait. Given the political climate, Fox couldn’t be thinking of recovering Nikko for tens, possibly hundreds of years. She would have more than enough time to trap Fox in his own schemes.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p></div></div></div></div></body></html>
