<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta name="generator" content="http://calibre-ebook.com"/>
    <title>Linda Nagata - Nanotech Succession 01</title>
    <meta name="author" content="The Bohr Maker"/>
    <meta name="creation-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta name="revision-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre1">
<div class="calibre1"><div class="s2"><h2 class="calibre4" id="calibre_pb_24">   <span class="none3">CHAPTER</span></h2><h2 class="calibre5"></h2></div><div class="calibre1"><div class="s3"><h3 class="calibre6"> <span class="none3">24</span></h3><h3 class="calibre6"></h3></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> </span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin’s ghost arrived in the atrium of the commander of the </span><span class="none2">Galapagos. </span><span class="none">Beryl was a hard-line cop with a buzz cut and a system-wide reputation for molecular intolerance. She and Kirstin went back a long way, and they welcomed each other with a hearty hug. When the clinch eased, the commander leaned back and treated Kirstin to a wide grin. “Fried his glass ass,” she announced.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Nikko Jiang-Tibayan?” Kirstin asked eagerly. “You got him?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Beryl nodded. “It was close. He was only a few klicks off the station when we got a video ID. We had to fire a sweetie right through the arc of rotation. Real cute. Nailed him in his nuclear ass.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin felt a thrill of triumph. Nikko had almost sneaked past her again, but not quite. “Nature. I wish I could have seen it happen. Bet the BOD’s screaming about the rads, though.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The commander frowned. “You’d think so, wouldn’t you? But except for a little grousing from traffic control, Summer House hasn’t said a word. You’d think we were exterminators they’d hired to do a job.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin felt a brush of concern then. It wasn’t like the board of directors to lose an opportunity to file a complaint against the police. “You sure you hit them?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Sure. They’re dust.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She kissed the commander on the cheek. “Dock the ship, then. I’ve got a corpse warming up and a warrant to arrest Fox. I’ll meet you in the city.”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	As soon as Kirstin emerged from the mausoleum, she summoned the contingent of officers stationed at the House. The </span><span class="none2">Galapagos </span><span class="none">was still in the process of docking, but she could begin her investigation with the staff on hand.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“The first thing we do is find Fox,” she told the reluctant police captain, the same man she’d visited weeks ago on her first inspection of the House. His tour of duty was nearly over now. He’d already submitted his resignation and accepted full House citizenship. Obviously, he didn’t like the situation one bit.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“They’re hiding him,” the captain said. “The House won’t say where he is.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin’s eyes narrowed in irritation. “We have a warrant,” she informed him. The data Gates had already been instructed to filter his ghost.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The police captain nodded nervously. “That’s fine. We’ll need to take it to the corporate offices and get someone to open the House security system to us.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Her frown deepened. “We’ve got Hunter Makers. We can find him on our own.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The police captain averted his gaze. “Could be,” he said. “But the hunt will be easier if we go through channels.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She glared at him in open indignation. “You’re saying our Hunter Makers won’t work here?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He glanced at her, then quickly looked away. “No, no, I’m not saying that at all. If that were the case, I would have reported it, wouldn’t I?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Damn right.” If he hadn’t reported it, she’d have </span><span class="none2">him </span><span class="none">up on charges.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“It’s the organic nature of Summer House,” he explained. “We can’t just flush our Hunters through the air system. There’s a lot of undifferentiated tissue to inspect. It could take hours.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She was not convinced. But for the moment, she agreed to go along. “All right,” she said. “To the corporate offices, then.”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The corridors seemed oddly empty. When they did encounter people, it was mostly children, playing tag and hide-and-seek and other games. The few adults they saw were openly hostile, scowling at the contingent of police officers.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	They found the corporate offices nearly deserted. A few kids were playing in the outer rooms. They scattered when the cops showed up. The desk consoles had all been shut down and wouldn’t reactivate when Kirstin punched in an experimental command. She glared questioningly at the local police captain, but he only shrugged, his face creasing in worry. “I’ve never seen it like this before,” he said. “They’re usually fully staffed here, round the clock.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He led them on. The doors to the various offices stood open, but one after another, they found each room empty, the consoles unresponsive. Finally, they came to the president’s office: Fox’s old haunt. This door was closed, but it slid aside at the request of the police captain.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A red-haired figure sat behind the desk, idly swiveling from side to side in the office chair. For a moment Kirstin thought she’d found Fox. Her eyes widened. She started forward. Then the chair’s occupant looked up.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He was a teenage kid. His gaze met hers. Amusement glittered in his eyes. His face was a study in insolent self-assurance, as if he’d discovered the big bad wolf had rotten teeth. When she saw that expression, she felt a sharp pang of worry.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“We’re looking for Fox,” the police captain said.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The kid’s gaze remained fixed on Kirstin. “Fox is gone.” He had the effrontery to actually grin.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin carefully pulled a wrap over her outrage. “Gone where?” she asked between gritted teeth.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Well, nobody knows. He’s just gone. All his personal files, too, if you want to know.” The kid leaned back in his chair; kicked his feet up on the desk. “Sound like a suicide to you?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin glared for a long, cold moment. “Where’s the corporate staff?” she asked. “Who is acting president?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Well, the staff stepped out for a few minutes, you see. But I’m still here. I’m the new president.” He laughed again, then popped a stick of gum into his mouth.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Two hours of searching turned up no sign of Fox, or any other member of the corporation’s Board of Directors. Sometime during that interval, the police captain also disappeared. After Kirstin discovered his absence, she ordered the rest of the local officers aboard the </span><span class="none2">Galapagos, </span><span class="none">which had finally completed docking procedures at the central tether. House personnel had not assisted in the process. The staff was ostensibly on holiday and officially the dock was closed, while all corporate citizens observed a day of grieving over the supposed suicide of Fox, their corporate father. There didn’t seem to be any formal ceremonies.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The police manhunt continued. When a few members of Fox’s staff turned up, Kirstin summoned them to the </span><span class="none2">Galapagos </span><span class="none">for questioning. But nobody would admit to knowing where the missing corporate members had gone, or who had overseen Nikko’s resurrection. They gave her no useful information at all, and when she threatened them, they showed no fear.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	So she released the Hunter Makers into the city—three waves of them over a ninety-minute period. Six hours later none of them had obeyed their programmed limit and returned, leaving her with the inescapable conclusion that something out there was eating them. It seemed impossible. She should have had the best arsenal in existence. Yet her finest molecular devices failed to return.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The hunt took on a critical feel. Summer House was not like other cities. She couldn’t just run the dogs through the corridors. The corridors represented only a small part of the body of Summer House. Manufacturing facilities and secure labs were set away from the inhabited levels and could only be accessed through the transit system. The multitudinous levels of the forest had to be accessed on foot. But what concerned her most was the uninhabited and unimproved zone between the outer oceans and the inner city. The area consisted of little more than mass: an undifferentiated gelatinous medium through which the lanes of the transit system passed. Fox could hide a world in that vast, interstitial space. But without the Hunter Makers, she had no way to inspect it.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Her frustration grew with the passing hours. Instinct told her a whirl of activity was proceeding just beyond her perceptions, yet she couldn’t access it. The situation was slipping out of her control.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p></div></div></div></div></body></html>
