<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta name="generator" content="http://calibre-ebook.com"/>
    <title>Linda Nagata - Nanotech Succession 01</title>
    <meta name="author" content="The Bohr Maker"/>
    <meta name="creation-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta name="revision-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre1">
<div class="calibre1"><div class="s2"><h2 class="calibre4" id="calibre_pb_19">   <span class="none3">CHAPTER</span></h2><h2 class="calibre5"></h2></div><div class="calibre1"><div class="s3"><h3 class="calibre6"> <span class="none3">19</span></h3><h3 class="calibre6"></h3></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> </span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Get up, Phousita! Get up!” Arif screamed. His voice seemed to come to her from the other side of distant mountains, muted thunder rolling in from over the horizon to fill the air above this forested valley with a gloom so thick it threatened to bow the treetops.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita huddled between the knees of a monstrous tree, its surface roots enclosing her like walls. She was naked, soaked and shaking. Her own disembodied voice wailed far above her head, haunting the rain-soaked canopy. The treetops tossed in storm winds.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Too much! She’d tried to do too much. There were limits to everything, even the power of the evil sorcerer.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Get up!” Arif’s distant, monstrous voice continued to demand. “Come back to me. Please. I need you.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She’d tried to divide her attention between too many tasks. She’d set herself to healing Arif’s atrium and face. She’d set her own body back on its natural course of growth, enhancing it with an atrium of her own design that went far beyond the pattern laid down by the Commonwealth. She’d filled up the atrium with this forest world synthesized from her borrowed memories of Summer House—and then she’d set herself to reconstructing a ghost of Sandor from the knotted string of data that pretended to describe him.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	It had been too much.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sometimes in the Spill there would be only a handful of rice for the evening meal. Phousita would divide it. Everybody got a taste; nobody got enough to matter.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Someone touched her cheek. She flinched. Sandor crouched beside her, the whites of his eyes reflecting his natural horror. He’d tried to warn her she was going too far. A Commonwealth atrium could support one ghost in good detail, or two, if resolution and verisimilitude were sacrificed. Phousita had set herself to constructing an atrium that could contain three: herself, Sandor, and Nikko. Her mind had been fixed on the effort of construction for so long, so intently, that she’d essentially forgotten Arif. She’d wanted to forget him. She’d been so tired of his anger, his latent violence.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor brushed his rain-chilled lips against her forehead. “I’m sorry, Phousita. I should have let you go. I’m sorry. It was my fault.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">“No.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	His hand slipped between her legs. His fingers swiped at the threads of sticky semen he’d left there, as if he could remove that evidence of himself, recover it, change what had happened. But to change the past was beyond anyone’s power.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“I didn’t want to leave you!” she cried. “I didn’t want to leave you.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Shattered. Shattered. She’d given all but a veneer of her attention to Sandor, his body and hers, illusory ghosts tangled in mock-reality. He’d wanted it so much. Just once more, he’d begged her. Just once more, before Nikko comes, while we’re still alone.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	But something had told her to be afraid. She’d held Sandor tighter, but she’d let a wisp of herself go, a breath of mist drifting up out of the forest in search of her other self—</p><p class="calibre2"> 	—where she sat cross-legged on the carpet of the living room, her hands tenderly stroking Arif’s hair as he lay with his head pillowed in her lap, watching a medieval Asian drama. She didn’t want to be here. His presence cut her like an accusation, a reminder of the children she’d lost for him. She didn’t want to spend any time at all with him. So she spoke quickly, without thought, wanting only to return to Sandor and screw, screw, screw, forever seeking the orgasmic ecstasy that enclosed her like a swaddling cloth, insulating her from the bitter, bitter world. “My atrium is ready,” she said without preamble. “I can take Ghost-Nikko from you now.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	<span class="none2">“Phousita!” </span><span class="none">Sandor said. His hands on her shoulders, his fingers pressing painfully into her flesh. She gazed up into his deep blue eyes, wanting to wrap herself in their color, so clean, like a twilight sky at the end of a rainy day when all the pollutants had been washed out of the air.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Her hand knotted into a fist. She pounded her thigh in impotent anger. “How can you come to me?” she cried. “How can you bear to look at me? I killed your brother. I was too slow. Too stupid. I killed him.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She wrenched away from him. But he tackled her before she’d gone a step, rolling her down into the humus, her back pressed against the spongy, rotting layers of decay, the feet of a hundred wriggling insects tramping across her skin. Rain fell in her eyes. “But I love you,” he said.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	It was too much. She dissolved in his arms, rising up out of the forest in a drifting pillar of mist.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Her eyes were closed, but she could feel the gravity of Arif beside her. He raised her up, cradling her in his sinewy arms, rocking her like a baby, sobbing over her. Her head throbbed where he’d kicked her. She sent tiny servants to ease the pain and a moment later her eyes fluttered, focused.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Phousita,” he sighed. His relief stung. She couldn’t meet his eyes, so she looked away.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Queen of witches.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I’m sorry,” he whispered. “I’m sorry.” Maybe he really was. “You’re all I have left.” Again, that sense of latent accusation. Curtains of fire seemed to blaze across the field of her vision. “We don’t need Nikko,” he said.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She flinched.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He held her tighter. “Forgive me,” he begged. “I’d be lost without you. Don’t leave me. Don’t ever leave me alone.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She felt smothered by his touch; his need. It felt mechanical, impersonal. He wore her like clothing; a utilitarian garb to keep the sun from burning his skin. He didn’t need </span><span class="none2">her; </span><span class="none">only her talents, the thin comfort she could offer him. “What am I to you?” she demanded.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He didn’t hesitate. “You belong to me. You are mine.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The despised object of his desire. A talisman he’d held close on dark nights in the Spill when she’d been able to offer him the faith he lacked. “You don’t want me,” she told him. “You want what I have. And that’s all right. I’m happy to give it to you. I can do that now.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He drew back, the handsome lines of his renewed face reflecting a sudden wariness. She noticed that his eyes were a little violet still. She told him: “Sandor warned me that the spirit of the evil sorcerer was dangerous. Nikko said the same thing. But we’re far beyond the reach of the cops now.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	They were in a tiny room on a tiny vessel that sped at unimaginable speeds across a great abyss of utter emptiness hostile to all natural life. Beyond the walls of this ship there was </span><span class="none2">nothing </span><span class="none">for miles so numerous they could be comprehended only in dreams.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“If you want to take the spirit of the sorcerer into your own body, I can give it to you. You can heal yourself, Arif. You won’t need to keep me anymore.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“It’s not like that,” he objected, his voice pained.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But she was tired, irritable, insistent. “Do you want it?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	His arms shook as he held her, but he nodded.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	So she began to weave a spell between her hands that would pass the seed of the sorcerer to Arif.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“But it’s not that easy. It can’t be.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She sat up, startled by the sudden presence of a stranger. He crouched on the carpet, not an arm’s reach away, a small, lean man, with a breathtakingly precipitous forehead and astonishingly fair skin. His fashion was European, his white-blond hair arranged neatly about his shoulders.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“What is it?” Arif hissed.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“A ghost,” Phousita whispered. Then louder: “You are a ghost?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Yes, it’s true. I’m a ghost,” the gentleman acknowledged. His lips twisted in an uncertain little smile that was quickly washed away by a sigh. “I’ve had a world of trouble getting in touch with you. I almost gave it up as hopeless, if you want to know the truth. Then I remembered Zeke Choy. It would be natural for you to try to copy his atrium, I thought. Even duplicate it down to the address. And so you did … duplicate the address, that is. But you’ve designed your own atrium, haven’t you? An awfully complex one. Two levels of synthetic reality. Very impressive.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Who are you?” Phousita asked. Her hands still prepared the spell for Arif. The task divided her attention.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Ah, forgive me.” A red blush crept across the stranger’s cheeks. “I’m Leander Bohr. I guess I’m responsible for your troubles in a rather roundabout way. I designed the Maker, you see. Though I hadn’t intended it for general use.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You’re the evil sorcerer?” she asked, incredulous.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Is that what they’re calling me now?” He laughed nervously. “Seriously. Don’t give away the Maker. Not until we’ve had a chance to talk. I thought you might come visit me. Soonest, you understand? I wouldn’t want to give away your position to the police, but if I have to, I will. This is my address. Do come, please. Good-bye.” He vanished as abruptly as he had appeared.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fear set in as soon as the sorcerer was gone. Phousita stared at the soft, blank face of the carpet. Her hands began to shake, and she dropped the spell she’d been trying to weave. It dissolved into harmless traces. Numbly, she communed with her atrium, instructing it to withdraw her soul from her body in the way Sandor had explained.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif plucked at her arm. “What is it?” he hissed. “What have you seen?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She turned to look at him, her eyes wide with dread. “The evil sorcerer has summoned me.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif swallowed hard. “You aren’t going to him, are you? You can’t go. You know he only wants to steal his spirit back. Then he’ll destroy you.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita feared this. She didn’t want to lose her soul. And yet Sandor had carefully explained that the spirit now forming in her atrium wasn’t really her soul at all, but only an image of herself, something akin to the image she might see in a mirror. Perhaps. Yet she knew from the old woman’s teachings that the soul wandered free of the body in dreams….</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She shook her head. She knew so very little. With all that she’d learned, with all that had been revealed to her, she still knew almost nothing. Worse, what she knew was in pieces, and she didn’t understand how to fit them together. “I have to go,” she insisted. “The sorcerer has summoned me.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	In the old woman’s stories the world had always been strictly divided between gods and human beings. The one to command and challenge and torment. The other to struggle, to obey. Phousita was a minor woman, at best. The evil sorcerer though: she suspected he might dwell on the other side of the divide. How could she not obey him?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“He said he would tell the police where we are, if I didn’t go to him.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Can the police still reach us?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I don’t know.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif looked away. “Be careful,” he said. “Don’t let him—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Oh, you came. Oh good. I didn’t want to scare you.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	It was the sorcerer who spoke. Phousita blinked at him in confusion. Just a moment ago—But no. Though it seemed as if no time had passed, somehow she knew that many hours had gone by since her spirit had left Arif. How did she know that? She couldn’t say. Some new sense. A tiny servant…</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The sorcerer stood before her, clasping and unclasping his hands, his bright blue eyes seeming anxious as if he wanted her to speak.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	They were in a courtyard. There were walls of white limestone on three sides nearly obscured by a lush garden. The air was heavy with the scent of flowers. Dark wooden doors led through one of the walls, presumably into a building. A fountain bubbled merrily under a large frangipani tree. The courtyard was U-shaped. It opened onto a view of a barren, jumbled slope of cold black lava that fell away at a steep angle until far below the slope vanished abruptly as if cut off by a knife. And where there should have been something beyond that—a valley or mountain, an ocean or a desert plain—to meet the jagged, lifeless slope, there was only a sea of stars. And overhead a great round moon loomed, like a huge sea as blue as the sorcerer’s eyes. Phousita gasped in fear, expecting it to pour down upon them at any moment. But for now, it held.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Shivering, she looked once again at the sorcerer.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“This is my home,” he said softly. (Almost shyly, she realized with a start.) “It’s not real, of course. But then you must have guessed that. No atmosphere on a rock like this, is there? Shouldn’t be, anyway. But since my home is a fiction, I can furnish it with fictional elements. Everything you see is a ghost, including me.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita calmly rearranged the folds of her sarong as she weighed the implications of this confession. She understood the structure of this place. It was very similar to her own inner world. Too simple for a god. Could that mean the sorcerer was only human? Drawing a deep breath, she decided to find out. </span><span class="none2">“Tuan, </span><span class="none">you have summoned me, and I have come. But could you please tell me, so that I might offer you the proper respect, are you a god? And is this the spirit world?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The evil sorcerer laughed, but only for a second. Then he seemed to grow thoughtful. “I’m not a god, no,” he said. “I’m just the ghost of a man called Leander Bohr. He died quite a long time ago, you see, and I’m all that’s left of him. But is this the spirit world? I never thought of it that way before, but I like that idea, I do. Certainly the physical basis of this existence is very small. And there’s always room for a new mythology, isn’t there? The spirit world. Yes, I like that very much.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita frowned at this answer. Did he toy with her? It was too much to think that one as learned as this sorcerer might be ignorant of the structure of the world and his station in it. The spirit world, the world of people: they were two parts of a whole, a fundamental that ran through every tale the old woman had ever spun. She studied this Leander Bohr thoughtfully. Had some god stripped him of this most essential knowledge? Oddly, she began to feel a bit sorry for him.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">“Tuan,” </span><span class="none">she asked, when the silence had grown long and she sensed he waited for her to speak. “Are you that which inhabits me?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He shook his head. “No. That’s a thing I made. You’ve kept it to yourself, haven’t you?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Yes, </span><span class="none2">tuan.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Good. Good.” He smiled: shy and charming.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	She wasn’t lulled by his expression. She knew she’d trespassed on his interest. He <span class="none2">must </span><span class="none">want the spirit back. Why else would he have summoned her?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	His smile faded. He seemed confused; concerned. “You mustn’t give it away to anyone else, you know. It would be very dangerous. You wouldn’t want to be responsible for that.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	His warning seemed to conjure bright waves of fire: a sea of flame that rolled in and surrounded her, licked her legs, kissed her skirt. She squeezed her eyes shut, fighting the vision.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“The Maker’s brought you nothing but terrible pain,” Leander said, his voice gentle, persuasive. “I know you’d never wish that on another.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She stiffened. Anger edged her thoughts as she began to see beyond his words. Yes, she’d trespassed on his interests. But the spirit was hers now! It had come to her. It was a gift, not a curse, and she would share it out as she liked.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She met his gaze. “I won’t give it back to you. My people need this thing.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	That startled him. “Your people?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	His doubt seemed to fuel the flames. They leapt again on the edge of her vision. But her anger quickly chased them back. </span><span class="none2">Did he believe she had no people left?</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	“My people!” she shouted in open defiance. Her finger thumped hard against her breast. “The people of the Spill. I will share what I have with every one of them.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	His eyes widened in sudden panic. “You can’t mean that!” he squeaked. “You can’t mean to release the Maker on Earth.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	<span class="none2">“But why not?” </span><span class="none">Her frustration twisted like a wire through her voice. “With this spirit, every person would be able to heal his own life. If that could happen, then naturally the world would be well too.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He shook his head, his gaze reflecting deep fear. “Other people aren’t like you, Phousita. They don’t want to be healed. They want to be more than human. They want to remake the world. They will murder the spirit of our Mother. You must destroy the Maker. I have to ask you to destroy it.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Her lips pressed together in a bitter line. “I cannot do that, </span><span class="none2">tuan.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	She would not betray Arif and Sandor, her vanished children, everyone she’d ever known who might benefit from this thing, even the memory of the old woman, just to satisfy this man. Just because he didn’t want to share his talents? He said he wasn’t a god … yet he acted like one. She told him so: “I’ve heard that gods are stingy with their gifts, that they enjoy the suffering of the people … it makes their own lives more sweet.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Ah.” He turned half away, to stare dejectedly at a fruit tree laden with huge, colorful bats. “Well, at least now you know my wishes. Perhaps you can be persuaded, I don’t know.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Will you torture me?” Phousita asked.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Oh. I never—I—” His moon-white skin blushed a shy pink and he spoke as if his tongue had suddenly grown thick and clumsy. “Yes. Yes, it may come to that. You can’t leave until I let you go, and you can’t erase yourself, you know. I’ve edited your persona that way. Bit of a fascist, I guess. So sorry.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Oddly, Phousita wasn’t afraid anymore. How could she be? Of this man who seemed like a shy and demure little boy and not a great sorcerer at all. Perhaps this was only a guise he wore to put her off her guard. That would be a familiar ruse; the old woman had told her countless tales in which demons masqueraded as friends. So she held on to her suspicions, even while she tried to approach him. “You don’t seem evil,” she said.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	His gaze shifted nervously, never meeting hers. “Don’t be too confident of that. I’m a coward myself, but I can command Makers to do the dirty work.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Why do you want to destroy this spirit you’ve made?”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Because if it becomes naturalized, it will destroy our past.” He immediately suppressed her first objection. “Oh, not our memory of the past,” he snapped. “Of course the Maker remembers everything. That’s one of its functions. But it will destroy our <span class="none2">connection </span><span class="none">with the past. The biological continuum. The billions of years of change, the billions of deaths of human and nonhuman entities, the constant, unconscious improvisation of a trillion genetic lines. The body of our Mother will be laid to waste. After the Maker there will be no place left for chance and no history.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita turned away in disgust. This man made no sense. He had to be a man. No god could be so foolish.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You see the Maker as a savior,” he said, speaking from behind her. “And I commend you for that. I don’t condemn you at all. You’ve seen horrible sufferings, I know, and it’s a credit to you that you want to end them. But the Maker’s a destroyer, not a savior. It will preserve the individual, but not the continuum of life.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The continuum. What was that but pain passed from one generation to the next? She turned on him suddenly, anger flaring sharply from her tongue. “No one suffers in the Commonwealth—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Fah! The Commonwealth is not important. </span><span class="none2">You </span><span class="none">are important. You are real. The Spill is important. And so is every other place that refuses the insured existence of the Commonwealth. Life needs risk. It needs uncertainty. Or it becomes passive; vulnerable.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita forced her hands to her side. Her gaze wandered out across the starry sea while she drew three calming breaths. Somewhere, a frog began to softly call. “You live alone, don’t you?” Phousita asked at last.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The sorcerer backed off a step; cleared his throat as if she’d brought up something unpleasant. “Well, I, uh, yes, I do.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita scowled her contempt. “Forgive me, </span><span class="none2">tuan, </span><span class="none">for my stupid question. You have already told me you are a ghost. And ghosts don’t live at all. Do they?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	His fingers began to tremble against his thigh. “Not in the way you mean, of course—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Of course. I didn’t mean to distress you. I am a stupid woman.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Stop it, please.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Yes, of course, </span><span class="none2">tuan. </span><span class="none">But tell me something first, if you can. After you’ve tortured me, and persuaded me to exorcise the sorcerer’s evil spirit—Oh, oh, pardon me for my clumsy tongue. After you’ve rid me of the </span><span class="none2">Maker</span><span class="none">—(How foolish of me to think of it as your spirit!) What will you do? Will you remain in this empty world, and not-live in your nonlife and not love and not be horrified at death? </span><span class="none2">Tuan, </span><span class="none">who are you to command the world?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	At first he offered no answer. He stood before her, eyes downcast, his toe tracing circles upon the ground. Then a parrot squawked in the tree overhead. He looked up at it and waved his hand. It fell silent as he met her gaze. “I made this thing, Phousita. It’s my responsibility, my </span><span class="none2">fault. </span><span class="none">I should have destroyed it long ago, but I couldn’t get to it. So I thought it was safe. Then that damned Nikko Jiang-Tibayan turned it loose.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Her heart seemed to stop cold in her chest. She didn’t want to ask him, she didn’t want to be beholden to him, but she had to know. “Nikko? Do you know of him?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He looked at her in surprise and sudden suspicion. “Do you?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“He’s dead,” she said.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Yes.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	From his face, she knew it didn’t matter to him. She stomped her foot in anger. What acquaintance did this man have with death that he could think it led to anything better than despair?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He seemed to hear her thoughts. He stepped closer to her, though he had enough respect not to touch her. “I’m not evil, Phousita. I’m not cruel and I am not heartless. I’ve been hungry too. I had three sisters. Plague took them all within a month of birth. My mother abandoned me when a trick offered her a ride over the border. I lived with my best friend until his mother discovered I had a little talent with molecular design and then </span><span class="none2">she </span><span class="none">sold me to a clan of criminals. </span><span class="none2">I know how horrible the world can be.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Then why won’t you change it?” she pleaded.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“The world is changing itself. I know the agony. I feel it every day. But every parent knows a child must be allowed to suffer.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“So much that the child never grows up?”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“The world will go on, one way or another.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Her head jerked up. “Oh yes! The Commonwealth will see to that! We still have things they want.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“So long as they leave your natural cities alone.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“You <span class="none2">are </span><span class="none">heartless.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He nodded reluctant agreement. “I suppose you’re right. You put an honest name on everything. That’s refreshing, and I won’t insult you by pretending to less. I must torture you now.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Her heart thundered, but she didn’t let it show. She wondered if he knew anyway. Did he spy on her mind? “What will you do?” she asked.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I will rewrite your ghost and infect you with part of myself. My beliefs and my convictions will become yours. It’s the same result I’ve tried to achieve today through persuasion, though obviously I’ve failed miserably at that. You will carry these convictions home to your original and you’ll act on them in the best manner you can.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You will possess me.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Yes.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You </span><span class="none2">are </span><span class="none">evil.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I never thought so before, but now, well … you may be right.”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p></div></div></div></div></body></html>
