<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta name="generator" content="http://calibre-ebook.com"/>
    <title>Linda Nagata - Nanotech Succession 01</title>
    <meta name="author" content="The Bohr Maker"/>
    <meta name="creation-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta name="revision-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre1">
<div class="calibre1"><div class="s2"><h2 class="calibre4" id="calibre_pb_22">   <span class="none3">CHAPTER</span></h2><h2 class="calibre5"></h2></div><div class="calibre1"><div class="s3"><h3 class="calibre6"> <span class="none3">22</span></h3><h3 class="calibre6"></h3></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> </span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin headed home after Marevic’s execution, bone-tired but aglow with a sense of triumph. The Bohr Maker was hers again—not in hand yet, but under her control. Her staff had extrapolated the ship’s control codes from Marevic’s aborted testimony. They’d communicated briefly with the ship, obtaining video and auditory images that confirmed the identity of the two passengers as Phousita and Arif.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	And she’d ensured the ship would never come back to Castle. Already the police ship </span><span class="none2">Galapagos, </span><span class="none">routed toward Summer House, was moving into position to launch a missile at the outlaw vessel. Nikko’s desperate caper was nearly at an end.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	For a moment a darker mood eclipsed her triumph. Nikko’s ghost was aboard that ship too. She had no direct proof, but every instinct told her it must be. She would have liked to visit him; let him know that he was not so clever after all; that in the end his treachery had failed.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But the ship’s communications systems had been shut down to prevent any ghosts from escaping, and she wouldn’t compromise that.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She smiled as she reached the welcoming door of her apartment. She would not let Nikko steal her pleasure. No, the only real disappointment in the case was that Marevic’s testimony had offered no links to Fox.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The majordomo program greeted her as she stepped inside, informing her that she had two hundred ninety-seven calls or ghosts waiting, one hundred thirty-four of them coded urgent priority. She returned the greeting with a few choice epitaphs.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	After a bath and dinner, she replayed an atrium record of one of Nikko’s visits, then slept contentedly. So another full day passed before she finally turned her attention to the backlog of calls and waiting ghosts. Even then, she failed to notice his presence until she’d worked through nearly half the urgent list. The majordomo program had taken no special notice of the waiting ghost’s identity. But the tag caught </span><span class="none2">her </span><span class="none">eye, and brought her up sharp.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">Leander Bohr.</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	She blinked in shock that quickly turned to anger, then to cynical amusement.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	It was a hoax, of course.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Still, it had got her attention. She called up the ghost, curious to see what cocky bastard would dare use Leander’s name.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	The ghost appeared for her.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	<span class="none2">“You!” </span><span class="none">she hissed.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He shrugged deferentially. The white-blond hair, the cool blue eyes, the milky skin … just the same as she remembered. Just the same.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But it was impossible. He’d died so long ago. He could not have hidden from her all this time.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fury set in. He’d played her for a fool! But no longer. Now she knew he was extant, she would find him. But she kept these thoughts hidden.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Leander,” she said coolly. “Or a damn good imitation.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He seemed confused, but that was always his way. “Kirstin. You look imposing. More grand than I remember. Oh, but you’ve kept me in the tank so long. Have they made it to Summer House? Are you watching closely?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She shivered at this haunting from the past. But it </span><span class="none2">had </span><span class="none">to be Leander. The mannerisms were perfect.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“It’s a bit of a surprise to see me, isn’t it?” he went on, when she failed to answer. “Sorry. I hadn’t intended to stick my nose into your business, but the truth is, I’m beginning to doubt you. You let them take the Maker.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“What do you know about it?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I’ve talked with Phousita.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I’ve talked with Nikko.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She went very still. “The ghost, you mean. Marevic admitted that.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“No, the man. You’re not aware of him? That’s bad. He’ll have taken the Maker from you by now, then. I tried to stop him, but Fox had booby-trapped his atrium.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You idiot! Try to make some sense.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He smiled as if she were an embarrassing child. “Nikko will have taken the Maker from you by now. That’s all. Can’t you stop him?”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The ghost was transitory. It answered her questions about Nikko and about the little craft Nikko had been piloting toward an interception with Phousita. Then it dissolved itself, leaving no trail, no hint of where it had come from, not even a pattern that she could feed to the Gates.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The experience left her shaken. She no longer felt sure of the extent of her powers. Leander had duped her all these years. Now Nikko thought he could fool her too? Her doubt turned to hot anger. She checked the time. The police cruiser had fired its missiles several hours before. They were scheduled to strike the ship in approximately twenty-three minutes. She ordered communications with the ship reestablished. She had to confirm Leander’s warning.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A machine can’t duplicate human senses. This was neither a philosophical statement nor a scientific opinion, but a law within the Commonwealth, and Kirstin experienced its severity when her ghost arrived aboard the police ship. She “heard” through the ship’s audio pickups, “saw” through its video eyes, “smelled” through its molecular filters, and felt nothing. She had no body and no fixed position, either mental or physical. She saw the whole ship at once, heard it, smelled it. At once she knew that it was empty.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She wanted to breathe.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Instead, she reviewed the ship’s memory, scrolling rapidly through the days since launch until the moment the visitor was first detected. Now she perused the records more slowly. She watched as the strange craft approached and locked to the hull of the police ship; she saw a familiar figure emerge from it. She listened to conversations aboard the ship.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She wanted to breathe.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko Jiang-Tibayan mocked her. A dead man, now heartily alive. Like Leander, he’d played her for a fool.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She must breathe.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She went home.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Immediately, she convened a closed-door meeting with select members of the Congressional Committee that oversaw police activities. “It’s the biogenesis function,” she told them. “I filed a report on its potential weeks ago; now my worst fears have been confirmed. Fox has stored illegal code in the function and used it to recreate a proscribed life-form.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You don’t know that for sure,” one of the politicians objected.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin glared at him. “That’s why I’m here seeking a warrant,” she growled. “So I can conduct an investigation. I want a warrant that will allow me to review every line of code in the function. I want another warrant that will allow me to arrest Fox on unspecified charges. I don’t have any proof of his involvement at this point, but if I postpone the arrest, he’s going to disappear. We’re not talking about an ordinary citizen here. We’re talking about Fox Jiang-Tibayan. And he may have already armed himself with the Bohr Maker. We simply can’t afford to wait.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The Congressional people looked worried. Good. Get them scared enough, and they’d let her do anything.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“All right,” the ranking representative said. “You can have your warrants. But you will take no punitive action without our approval.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin gave him a look of open contempt. “I appreciate your delicate moral sensibilities,” she said. “But the situation is critical. We will do what is necessary.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Within the bounds of the law!”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“We’ll try.”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p></div></div></div></div></body></html>
