<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta name="generator" content="http://calibre-ebook.com"/>
    <title>Linda Nagata - Nanotech Succession 01</title>
    <meta name="author" content="The Bohr Maker"/>
    <meta name="creation-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta name="revision-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre1">
<div class="calibre1">
<div class="s4">
<h2 id="calibre_toc_2" class="calibre4">  <span class="none3">Epilogue</span></h2><h2 class="calibre5"></h2></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none1">(1)</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">News Release/Congressional Office of Public Information: A Congressional investigation has concluded that the destruction of Summer House was caused by a runaway molecular event. While details will probably remain forever unknown, investigators now believe that a program designed to record and store biogenic information was deliberately released into the House plexus without adequate testing. It malfunctioned, converting all living physiological tissue to electronic code. Only those foreign residents not listed on the corporate roster were spared. Eventually, the organic body of the House itself was attacked, a process that ultimately led to catastrophic collapse.</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	<span class="none2">Numerous fragments of the House have been surveyed. None have shown any indication of further biogenic function. Investigators believe that exposure to vacuum denatured the aggressive Makers.</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	<span class="none2">Rumors of survivors have proven unfounded.</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	No survivors. That was the official police response. And it was true, in a way. Because after a few days even the most stubborn inhabitants of the dispersing cells had to admit that given the limited resources and energy of their arks, there was no possibility of long-term survival in physiological form. Gradually, they transformed themselves into a vast haunting of electronic ghosts, each cell plotting its future in quiet isolation.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Except Nikko. He was alone and he had no atrium so the electronic world was closed to him. But being alone, he caused no great drain on the cell’s resources.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Time passed: abstract minutes to abstract hours to abstract days. He spent a lot of that time asleep. There wasn’t much else to do. He talked to the camera, and watched the pictures play back on the little monitor and meditated to stave off depression and wondered every waking minute: <span class="none2">What’s going on?</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	Until after three weeks his incessant query finally brought a response. Knowledge flooded into him as his newly developed atrium established a communications link with the Dull Intelligence that supervised the cell. He discovered a ghost of Fox waiting for him in the cell plexus, and immediately, he issued an invitation.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Dad.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Fox smiled at him. He looked strained, but happier than the last time Nikko had seen him. “It’s all on the table now,” he said.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Nikko nodded. The cops were still out there. But for how much longer? “We’ll rebuild the House, won’t we?”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Fox’s eyes seemed to shine. “Of course. At least those who stay.” He shrugged. “Some have chosen to move beyond the solar system. The solar sails are already being spun.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Fox seemed so proud when he said this. Nikko felt a stab of loneliness, more intense than he had ever known. “You, Fox?”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“No.” Fox shook his head. “Not yet anyway. I want to try it here one more time.” He smiled shyly. “There’s an Apollo asteroid that some of us have an eye on. We’ve nudged a few of the cells onto intercept courses. It’s slow going. Not much propellant available. It’ll be a few years before any of us make contact. But the more time that goes by, the better. The Bohr Maker’s out there. It’ll be changing things.” His gaze cut away. “We, uh, took the liberty of instructing this cell to rendezvous at the asteroid too.” He looked up quickly, concern in his eyes. “You’re free to change that, of course. If you want to leave the system, or, or … anything. You’re free, Nikko.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	<span class="none2">Free. </span><span class="none">He mouthed the word like soft candy. The research permit was void. His days were not numbered. He still faced a death sentence in the Commonwealth, but at least now they’d have to catch him first!</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">Free.</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	Suddenly a world of potential seemed to expand around him, almost at the speed of light. His kisheer shivered against his neck, and for the first time in years he found that reaction inadequate. He wished that he could smile. Instead, he shook his head. “Don’t change a thing, Fox.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	He turned to the watching camera lens, wanting to put an end on his documentary, eager to do that now that he knew this one would not be his last. Now that he knew he could start another.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	He took a deep breath, and his kisheer spread smoothly out across his shoulders. “This is Summer House Corporate Citizen Nikko Jiang-Tibayan,” he said, “back on line.”</p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none">  	</span><span class="none1">(2)</span></p><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"> 	 </p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita awoke in darkness interrupted by a thin, vertical wire of muted sunlight. She was upright, cradled and supported by a smooth, solid cocoon precisely fitted to her body. She wriggled her shoulders a little. The wire of light seemed to widen. She tasted the air and discovered the heady scents of jungle and natural decay. She called to Sandor over her atrium, once, then again. On the second try he responded, his voice groggy. “Wha—? ‘Sita, y’all right?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“All right,” she reassured him. The strip of sunlight was definitely getting wider. She could get her fingers through the crack now. From far away came the chortling of an unknown bird. Quickly she concocted spells and blew them through the crack (now wide enough to admit her arm) hoping she might learn something of the bird’s nature.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	As the gap widened, she forced her shoulder through, then her head. After that the rest of her body slipped out easily, like a baby spilling from a birth canal.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	At the touch of sunlight against her face, she burst out laughing. Then she turned to hug the tree that had produced her, this great and ancient machine. For perhaps two hundred years it had given birth only to seeds of itself. Then a tiny meteorite had come to ground here, after evading the watchful eyes of the police. Inside the meteorite, biogenic Makers had carried her quiescent pattern.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The Makers had changed the tree’s biological programming, causing it to produce a new body for her in only three years from the energy collected in its living solar panels. In admiration she turned her eyes upward to gaze into its canopy, then stepped back, aghast. Sunlight burned against her face.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The tree’s canopy had withered. It was a skeleton, worn out, exhausted by the effort of her creation. She was its last fruit. All around her, seedlings of the rain forest sprouted in the sudden glut of light.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Somber now, Phousita called to Sandor once again, and after a few hours of wandering about the forest preserve, they found each other. He’d engineered a dark brown complexion for this latest incarnation. Protection from the sun, he told her. His hair was still blond, his eyes blue. They kissed and made love and Phousita was glad she’d designed herself to be of moderate height.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“We’ll go down to the village tonight,” she said, as twilight fell across the forest. She’d scented the settlement earlier that day. It was over a ridge and down a long slope, very near to the edge of the forest preserve. At the boundary they’d have to pass through a cloud of toxic Makers maintained by the Commonwealth to protect the preserve from humans and human machines. But they were up to it.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“We’ll force no one,” Sandor said.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Of course.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	They arrived at the village just after midnight, when the moon was full. Dogs ran out and barked at them. Phousita calmed them with a touch. Worried faces peered out past the torn straw mats that served as doors in the moldy plastic shacks. Sandor beckoned to them. He used no spells, but nevertheless they came. Women and children and men, speaking in a dialect Phousita had never heard before. She gave them her thoughts and they listened. She offered them her sight, and ultimately, they accepted. Their poverty made them brave.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span></p><p class="calibre2"> </p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none">  	</span></p><br class="calibre3" id="calibre_pb_33"/>
</div></div></div></body></html>
