<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta name="generator" content="http://calibre-ebook.com"/>
    <title>Linda Nagata - Nanotech Succession 01</title>
    <meta name="author" content="The Bohr Maker"/>
    <meta name="creation-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta name="revision-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre1">
<div class="calibre1"><div class="s2"><h2 class="calibre4" id="calibre_pb_3">   <span class="none3">CHAPTER</span></h2><h2 class="calibre5"></h2></div><div class="calibre1"><div class="s3"><h3 class="calibre6"> <span class="none3">3</span></h3><h3 class="calibre6"></h3></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> </span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Visions tumbled through Phousita’s mind like paper images tossed about by an impish wind: scraps of memory, half-forgotten knowledge, outright fantasy, all aswirl, visible for a moment, then gone, gone, gone away to nowhere, swept around a corner, she couldn’t catch them, hold on to them, every bit of her life slipping by. And something that wasn’t a part of her life, recurring. A face. It appeared and disappeared, and alone amongst all the other images, appeared again. It matched nothing in her memory, this angular face, lovely as an angel. White skin, blond hair, unnaturally angry eyes. A song surged around it. She reached out to touch it and it faded again.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The song went on. It seemed to tug at her, and unwillingly, her eyes fluttered open.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sumiati’s lilting voice rolled over her and she found herself staring at the familiar mildew-stained graffiti that covered the wall beside her hammock. Afternoon sunlight streamed through the cracks between the boards, striping her fingers as they clutched at the hammock’s coarse nylon webbing.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She could see the angel’s face again. It seemed to drift just behind her eyes, a haunting, spectral image. Fear permeated her body like a poison. She lifted her head. Her hair clung in sticky threads to her sweat-dampened cheeks. Cautiously, she looked over her shoulder, half expecting to see the angel himself.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sumiati squatted nearby, tending a pot of rice set to cook over a small gas fire. She sang a soft pop tune, mimicking words from a language no one but Arif understood. Two children played quietly beside her, seemingly oblivious of the oppressive afternoon heat. Silently, Phousita eased her aching body from the hammock. She swept her oily hair out of her face and shivered. What witch had sent her such an evil dream?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Hey,” she called softly. “Sumiati?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The kids looked up from their game and started jabbering excitedly. Sumiati turned around to stare, her mouth a small circle of surprise.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Sumiati, I don’t feel very well,” Phousita said. Her hand rose tentatively to a half-remembered wound on her breast. She frowned, perplexed, as the soft touch of her fingers elicited a mild jolt of pain. She looked down to see a tiny circle of angry red flesh.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">“Phousita!”</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	Her head jerked up. Sumiati hunkered by the fire, staring at her as if she were a ghost. The children had fled.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Phousita,” Sumiati whispered. “Is it you?”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Phousita looked down at her hands. “I had a dream … about a dead man … and an angel.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“It was no dream! Oh, you said <span class="none2">tuan’s </span><span class="none">presence here was a bad sign. Phousita, you were right.” Despite the bulk of her pregnancy, Sumiati rose gracefully to her feet, her eyes suddenly brimming with tears. </span><span class="none2">“Tuan </span><span class="none">was evil! You were so deeply asleep when Arif pulled you out of the river, we couldn’t wake you. We thought </span><span class="none2">tuan</span><span class="none"> had killed you, and stolen your body to house his own wicked spirit. Phousita—” She caught Phousita’s hands in hers, squeezed them tight, kissed her cheek. Her eyes were shining. “I’m so glad it’s you.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But Phousita wasn’t so sure. The image of the angel that occupied her mind—this was not the face of dead </span><span class="none2">tuan. </span><span class="none">Still, she sensed something new inside her, a foreign presence rapidly growing in strength. She squatted by the cooking pot, staring into the blue gas flame. Compulsively, her fingers kept returning to the wound on her breast. </span><span class="none2">It was no dream. </span><span class="none">Then </span><span class="none2">tuan </span><span class="none">must have been a sorcerer. What spell had the needle cast when it entered her body?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sumiati squatted beside her. She adjusted the height of the flame, then glanced at Phousita. “You know, I’ve never seen Arif so angry.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Oh?” She looked up, surprised.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sumiati nodded. “Yes. He said he would drive </span><span class="none2">tuan’s </span><span class="none">spirit from your body or kill you himself.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita glanced around nervously.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“He’s gone,” Sumiati assured her. “He took the Knives and went to temple market to sell </span><span class="none2">tuan’s </span><span class="none">clothes. He’s going to bring the Chinese doctor back with him, </span><span class="none2">whether he wants to come or not.</span><span class="none">…” She nodded knowingly.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita’s eyes widened in surprise. The Chinese doctor never left his little shop to visit patients. How would Arif convince him to come? And then, “I don’t need a doctor,” she realized. Any money Arif got from the clothes would be wasted on the doctor’s fee. The clan needed that money for food! Fish and fruit for the children, more rice, cooking oil. And of course medicine, when the next plague swept through the city. Phousita rose to her feet. “I have to find him.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But Sumiati was shaking her head. “Arif warned me you might wake up and try to leave. He said I must keep you here. He left some of the Knives….” Her voice trailed off in embarrassment.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Sumiati!” But the girl refused to look up. Phousita stamped her bare heel against the broken vinyl floor. She started toward the door, the only way out of this little room at the end of the warehouse where she and Sumiati and the littlest children took their naps.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A boy and a girl stepped out of the shadows beyond the door to block her way. Phousita could read fear in their eyes, but their hands were steady as they passed a knife back and forth in a deadly juggling act, the blade moving so quickly it seemed to be in a dozen places at once. The leaping blade of the knife wove a fence of steel across her path.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She stared up at them. Little Sri was only seven, yet already taller than she. Phousita had delivered her in the shelter of a cardboard box on a dark morning when the rain hammered down as if it were determined to flood the world. Maman was a year or two older (nobody was quite certain). Arif had rescued him from a municipal cop who was beating him for sleeping on the sidewalk after dawn.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita had become surrogate mother for both of them. She knew they loved her. Would they really cut her? She didn’t believe it, but their eyes begged her not to test them. Arif was their master. He’d trained them in this deadly game and he would beat them if they didn’t obey.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Her fist clenched in sudden anger. To force children into such a terrible choice! To give pain, or to receive it…. She would have no part of that.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Her hand opened. She smiled gently and beckoned to them. “Come. We’ll help Sumiati with the sewing.” Gratitude shone in their eyes. She stepped back, and the flashing blade of the knife disappeared.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Through the last hour of the steamy afternoon Phousita and Sumiati tended to chores while the river grumbled beneath the rotting floorboards. There were clothes to be mended, children to be bathed, and more pots of rice to be cooked. (There was only one pot and one stove so that the rice had to be scraped into a large plastic tub after each batch was finished.)</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Voices drifted in from the street—idle chatter of the homeless, the hungry, waiting for the cover of night before they tried to approach the river. Twice, alert sentries called the Knives out to defend the warehouse against trespassers. Shots rang out once. At the sound of the rifles Phousita and Sumiati hurried to the windows to peer past the crumbling cardboard shades.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A hunting parry from the Islamic Resurgence occupied the cracked concrete of the riverbank. Two men stood guard, their ancient weapons at the ready while a third carefully searched the blood-soaked clothes of an emaciated beggar caught feeding on the fluff. The Resurgence claimed a devil had cast the spell that cleansed the river; they shot on sight anyone who dared to eat from the devil’s hand. Someday soon they’d discover Arif’s fluff booms under the warehouse and then they’d burn the old building down. The clan would make its home on the street again.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita watched until the beggar’s body was kicked into the water, then she turned away, picked up a broom, and began to sweep at nonexistent dust while once again the face of the white angel filled her inner vision. Altogether, it was a quiet afternoon.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">“Arif is here!”</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	Phousita started awake at the whispered warning. Twilight had fallen. She lay in the half-light, numbed by the sweltering heat left behind by the long afternoon. Her shoulder ached where she’d been sleeping on the hard floor.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Phousita?” the voice whispered again.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	She stirred herself with an effort. “I’m here. I understand.” A figure at the door turned away and disappeared. She looked around. Sumiati and the children were gone. She could hear a commotion in the front of the warehouse, the cheerful, bragging, bantering chaos that always accompanied the end of the day when the clan’s foragers returned from the city. Her hand rose, to touch the sweat-slick skin surrounding the wound on her breast. In her belly, hunger growled and scraped like a beast in a barren cage.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Sumiati had left the last pot of rice on the floor to cool.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Phousita became profoundly conscious of this fact as she sat listening to the distant noise of the new arrivals. The pot was very close. It was possible she could reach it simply by raising her arm. Her belly roared in urgency. Never had she felt hunger like this! Perspiration trickled down her cheek as she fought to ignore the sweet aroma of the rice. Suddenly, she could stand it no longer.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“ARIF!” she screamed, and her fists pounded against the crumbling floor. “Arif come free me. I’m dying, dying.” She pressed her face against the floor. The torn linoleum scraped her skin. The rice pot drew nearer. She couldn’t understand how it did this. She tried to turn away from it. Her hands shook as she sought to burrow into the floor. Her fingers burned as the rice pot touched them. She snatched them away, but the pot pursued her, searing her palms with steam as she removed the lid. She flung it across the room and screamed again. She pounded her forehead against the floor, again and again and again. Pain thundered in her skull, but the hunger would not recede. She collapsed, sobbing hysterically, her cheek pressed against the searing metal of the cooking pot.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	<span class="none2">“Where is she?” “Get out of the way!” “It’s plague, I knew it.” </span><span class="none">The voices seemed to blur together, melted into one by a blinding yellow light. Strong arms lifted her, rolled her gently until she lay on her back. “Eat, Phousita.” Someone placed rice in her mouth and she swallowed without chewing. Another mouthful, and another. The blurred figures around her began to resolve into recognizable faces. Sumiati. Sri. And the hand that fed her? She caught the wrist; looked up into the cool brown eyes of the Chinese doctor.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He was a young man, by his appearance not much older than Phousita, with a pale, translucent complexion and thick black hair tied neatly behind his neck. “Eat, Phousita,” he said again.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She stared at the rice in his hand while saliva pooled in her mouth. She swallowed hard. “No one else has eaten,” she whispered.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“No one else has plague. Eat.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I’m dying?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“We don’t know that yet. Eat.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Arif.” She squinted against the glare of a lantern, searching for his nightmare face amongst the crowd that squatted around her.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Here.” He touched her elbow.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She twisted around to face him. “Free me,” she whispered. She reached up to brush her fingertips against the hilt of the knife he carried strapped across his chest. “Don’t waste the clan’s food on me.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	His clown’s mouth fell open. He shook his head, but at the same time he started to reach for the blade.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The Chinese doctor batted his hand away. </span><span class="none2">“No!” </span><span class="none">he barked. “You kidnapped me. You dismantled my office and brought it down here. Now it’s my turn! I want to find out which plague’s infected her—</span><span class="none2">then </span><span class="none">we’ll consider the knife.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He turned to the children behind him and began snapping orders. A flat blue-gray box was handed to him. He opened it, revealing a glass window flooded with tiny amber symbols. Phousita recognized some of them. She’d been to Zeke Choy’s shop many times. He’d shown her this </span><span class="none2">computer </span><span class="none">before; taught her the names of the letters. He placed the device carefully on the ground, then accepted a small satchel from one of the onlookers. He opened it, examined the contents, set it aside, then looked around for the third and final item. A small sky-blue case was passed into his hands. He set it on the ground, then opened it carefully. On one side was a tiny keyboard and a black-on-gray display. On the other a glass window shielded what seemed like a thousand slender tubes, some containing colored liquids, some clear. The clan muttered in admiration. The Chinese doctor was a sorcerer of wide renown; still, to think he could command so many spells….</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Zeke Choy scowled at his audience. “Damn superstitious fools,” he muttered.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita looked up as someone nudged her elbow. Arif. He smiled at her—a manic expression given the exaggerated features of his face. She knew it was meant to be reassuring. He helped her to sit up. She was weak, hardly able to support her own weight. Her head felt muzzy, and hunger still raged in her belly. But she tried to put her discomforts aside, so that she could attend to the doctor as he began the rite.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	From the satchel he removed a tiny glass rod and a piece of paper. The paper opened to reveal a </span><span class="none2">lancet. </span><span class="none">Phousita was familiar with this procedure. She’d performed it herself on plague victims who’d been too ill or unstable to journey to Zeke Choy’s shop. She turned her hand palm up. The doctor took it, lanced a finger and used the glass rod to capture a bit of her blood. He would use the blood to divine the nature of her affliction. If it were an old plague, perhaps he could cure it. If not….</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She watched him insert the glass rod into a small hole in the face of the </span><span class="none2">computer. </span><span class="none">The onlookers muttered encouragement and whispers of hope. He was a great sorcerer. Everyone knew it, though the doctor himself would always insist it was not so.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A chime sang. Phousita shivered as a sense of fatalism settled over her. She was old, nearly twenty-five—even Arif was her junior. Most members of the clan didn’t live beyond fifteen.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Many times she’d imagined this moment, played out in her mind the feelings and fears that would haunt her in this inevitable time when she would finally face the reality of her own death after having witnessed the deaths of so many others. Her heart raced in a thready beat but she kept silent as Zeke Choy studied the pattern of letters on his computer screen.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He seemed puzzled. His brow knit, his scowl deepened. Phousita felt a cold sweat break out across her face. A wave of dizziness took her and she sagged against Arif, who held her tight. A wail of mourning arose from the gathered clan.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The doctor looked up in irritation, his thin hand chopping the air. “Stop it! Stop it, will you? It’s nothing!”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The wail cut off abruptly.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Nothing?” Sumiati said, her round face confused in the lantern light.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">“Damn vultures,” </span><span class="none">the doctor muttered. A curse, but the meaning was unclear.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">“Tuan,” </span><span class="none">Phousita asked timidly. “It is not plague?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“No, no, of course not,” he growled. “The poor sap you found in the river must have been a civilized gent. He hit you with a registered defensive toxin, that’s all. He was probably from the EC. The fatal toxins are illegal there. This drug was designed to knock an attacker down fast and keep him under until the police arrived.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“The Commonwealth Police?” Arif demanded, his fist closing tightly on Phousita’s arm. Sumiati moaned in fear.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The doctor snorted. “No, the </span><span class="none2">municipal </span><span class="none">police,” he said. “Crimes of assault are prosecuted in the EC.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita didn’t know what he was talking about, yet she sensed the words were a veil, intended to hide a more significant discovery. Apparently Arif suspected too.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“There’s more,” he hissed, deliberately omitting the polite address </span><span class="none2">tuan. </span><span class="none">“You’ve found another curse in her blood. What is it?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Nothing!” the doctor barked. “Give her a decent meal and she’ll be fine. Phousita!” Phousita looked up, startled. “You’re the shaman here. Now that your </span><span class="none2">wayang </span><span class="none">goon has dragged me halfway across the city, I might as well get some work done. Who needs medical attention?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Over the next hour he saw five children as well as Sumiati, then he shared dinner with the clan. From time to time during the meal he glanced at Phousita, his gaze searching. But he said nothing, and despite the return of her strength, she began to grow afraid, certain now that he hid something from her.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	At the end of the meal, he announced his intention to call for a cab to take him home. “You hauled me on foot across the city, but I’ve no intention of walking back.” He retrieved the </span><span class="none2">computer, </span><span class="none">opened it, and tapped thoughtfully at the keys. “Where are we?” he asked after a moment, looking up at Arif.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif shrugged disdainfully. “There is no address here.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“The street, man! What is the name of the street?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Riverside. That’s all.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The doctor muttered angrily under his breath, while tapping quickly at the keys. He seemed to find the results satisfactory, because his scowl softened as he sat back on his heels. “They know the place. I’ll wait on the street.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“It’s not safe to wait on the street,” Phousita said quickly. Arif started to argue with her—of </span><span class="none2">course </span><span class="none">his Knives would be watching—but she silenced him with a look. “I’ll wait with you. No one will trouble you if they see me there.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You’ve got a dangerous reputation, eh?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She bowed her head, mortified. “The street people here know I belong to Arif.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Ah.” He gathered up his bags and she hurried to assist him, but he wouldn’t accept her help. The clan bowed deeply as he turned to go. Remembering his manners at the last, he turned back and executed a peremptory bow, then left by the room’s only door. “Phousita!” he bellowed, when he discovered himself blind in the lightless passage.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif stood beside the door, an evil grin on his face. He dropped a flashlight into Phousita’s hand as she hurried past him. She squeezed the tube and the darkness in the corridor scurried away.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“That’s better,” the Chinese doctor sniffed. “I thought for a minute I’d have to feel my way out.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She led him in silence to the front of the building, past the guards and onto the street.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The wayside was crowded with hovels—pitiful shelters made of woven mats, cardboard, and plastic sheets. The street was slick with rain. A baby fussed nearby, and someone sang in a deep, guttural hill tongue. “Ah, there’s the cab,” Zeke Choy said, seeing a light approaching in the distance.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“We’re alone now,” Phousita said. “Please tell me what else you divined in my blood.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The doctor looked suddenly uncomfortable. “That’s the trouble,” he said softly. “I can’t tell you. I don’t know what it is.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“But the </span><span class="none2">computer</span><span class="none">—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I try to keep the data base accurate, but new plague appears all the time. You know that.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Her heart thundered. “Then it is a plague.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He shook his head. “Phousita, I don’t know </span><span class="none2">what </span><span class="none">it is. But I’ll find out; I’ve still got the sample. In the meantime, well….” He shrugged.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The light of the cab drew nearer. He raised his satchel to gain the driver’s attention. But he jerked his hand back down as a woman screamed in terror from a nearby alley. Immediately, the street village was plunged into silence.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita grabbed the doctor’s elbow and drew him backward until they were pressed against the door of the warehouse. “What is it?” he hissed. She shook her head, uncertain. The street was dark. Gas fires, stars, a few scattered flashlights: in the diffuse light she could make out the thoroughfare and the village that crowded the wayside, but she saw nothing that would—</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She caught her breath as two great beasts trotted into view from the alley. They paused for a moment in the center of the thoroughfare, their armored heads swinging slowly back and forth as their nostrils tested the air. She could hear them snuffling. “Police dogs,” Zeke Choy muttered. He said it like a curse.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita stood very still, wondering whom the dogs sought tonight. They were the servants of the Commonwealth Police. Their massive heads reached as high as a man’s shoulder. Phousita had seen one crush a woman’s skull in a single bite.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The dogs trotted slowly down the street, pausing now and then at a rickety shelter to lower their heads and examine visually the cowering inhabitants. In the harsh headlights of the approaching cab, their armored skulls glinted purest silver.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Bloody useless corruption of science,” the Chinese doctor muttered.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The lead dog stopped at the sound—a great black beast with mottled brown patches in its fur. Its eyes seemed to be made of glass laid over a gaping, black abyss. It approached.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita felt her heart thud. She pressed herself against the door, guided by some instinct that insisted against all reason that maybe, maybe, she could make herself invisible. She dearly wanted to be invisible.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Zeke Choy though, seemed unconcerned. He stood quietly as the dog sniffed him, its sensitive nostrils carefully examining his hands, his clothes, the bags he carried. “Nothing illegal there, you fascist, imperialist pigs,” he muttered. “Every molecule is licensed and registered.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita stared at him, dumbstruck. She didn’t understand what he’d said, but she was used to that. But who had he said it to? The </span><span class="none2">dog? </span><span class="none">And did he expect the animal to reply? He was a great sorcerer, yet…. She looked at the animal. But it made no attempt to speak. Instead it turned its attention on her, its great, hot breath whooshing across her skin. Its companion joined it, standing back a few paces, examining her with its soulless eyes.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Leave her alone,” the doctor growled. “She’s nothing to do with you.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Did the dogs obey him? They backed off, still sniffing suspiciously as if they were unsure of what they’d found. But finally they moved off, continuing their search farther down the street.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“They’ve no business here, no jurisdiction,” Zeke Choy said. He looked at Phousita. “Don’t let them scare you. The Commonwealth isn’t interested in people like you and me.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita had never imagined herself as a peer of the doctor. But she bowed her head and nodded.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The cab had stopped a few meters down the road. It pulled up now and Zeke Choy threw his bags in the open door. “Come to my shop in a few days. I’ll examine you again. And don’t worry … there won’t be a fee.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She started to object, but he shook his head and ordered the cab on. Phousita ducked inside the shelter of the old warehouse as soon as he was out of sight.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p></div></div></div></div></body></html>
