<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta name="generator" content="http://calibre-ebook.com"/>
    <title>Linda Nagata - Nanotech Succession 01</title>
    <meta name="author" content="The Bohr Maker"/>
    <meta name="creation-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta name="revision-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre1">
<div class="calibre1"><div class="s2"><h2 class="calibre4" id="calibre_pb_13">   <span class="none3">CHAPTER</span></h2><h2 class="calibre5"></h2></div><div class="calibre1"><div class="s3"><h3 class="calibre6"> <span class="none3">13</span></h3><h3 class="calibre6"></h3></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> </span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita strolled through a cloud forest, walking upright on the fifteen-meter-wide branch of a tree so tall it must span the distance from Earth to heaven. She looked up, and could see no top to the great tree. She looked down, and could see no ground, no roots, only more leaves and branches. Smaller trees (though still giants in her eyes) grew in the joints of the world tree. Ferns clung to their limbs, and the warm air was sweetly scented by a huge mass of brilliant red flowers borne by a trailing liana. The world tree also supported patches of sky: smooth puddles of light, each one as big as a neighborhood, aglow with a brilliant blue light like the sky over the Spill.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A monkey dashed past her, leaping off the branch-path, to land in the top of a banana tree. It reached down to a huge cluster of fruit, plump, and just turning yellow. </span><span class="none2">Good banana, </span><span class="none">it signed, picking one. </span><span class="none2">Share with you?</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	Phousita laughed. Sandor Jiang-Tibayan—for that was the angel’s name—looked at her as if she were a police dog ready to crush his head. She sighed. “Forgive me. It’s just that it’s …” <span class="none2">So absurd. </span><span class="none">“So odd to think that a monkey could talk … talk with its hands.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor’s eyes widened. He shrank further against the black, mildew-stained wall of the tiny room the Knives had rented in a row of tenements three-quarters of a mile from the river. Rats galloped through the rafters and a pool of rust-colored water collected in one corner of the dirt floor. Sandor sat on a low shelf, just large enough that two people could sleep under it and two could sleep on top. He was still naked. He’d turned sideways to her so that his legs would hide his genitals. The brilliant afternoon sunlight that filtered through the curtained rectangle of the door lent his skin a translucent, milky glow. His hair gleamed gold. His thoughts were clean and bright and delightful in her mind, and his scent tasted good to her. Sandor Jiang-Tibayan. Even his name pleased her tongue.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“What monkey are you talking about?” he asked, suspicion a gathering cloud in his blue eyes. “And when did you learn English?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita bowed her head. “The monkey you call Sax,” she said softly. “I don’t know when I learned English.” She’d had need of the talent, and it had come. Another gift of the evil sorcerer. (Why did he choose me? And what purpose did he have for this boy, Sandor?) Fear fluttered in her chest. What was given could also be taken away. The evil sorcerer could abandon her at any moment. He could take Sandor away and leave her with nothing, once again. </span><span class="none2">(I will burn incense. I will pray to his spirit.)</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	She devised a spell to calm the looming panic in her breast. Gently, she shooed away the tiny children who clustered at Sandor’s side and knelt to examine his wounds. In the cloud forest the first monkey had been joined by another. They moved away from the banana tree to continue their meal on a fruit that looked like guava, though it grew on a vine. The inner vision and the outer vision: her mind observed both with equal clarity. Did a goddess see the world like this? Through many eyes at once?</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Sandor winced as she touched the burns on his chest. She knew his fear: of her, of the rats, of the poverty that surrounded him … of what had happened to him in the police station. Softly, she said: “It’s not your fault. Sometimes, it just happens. The cops hear a name, someone’s arrested. It matters little to them if a crime has really occurred.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	His face squeezed tight in remembered pain. Then his eyes opened and confusion filled his gaze. In his words she heard a desperate need to understand. “I didn’t know what they wanted, or why they—” His gaze darted away, to fix on a wide-eyed toddler standing at Phousita’s side.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Perhaps they don’t know the reason either.” She pressed her fingertips firmly against the burns, and then against the shallow cut in his forearm. “I’ve touched you with a spell. These wounds will not sicken now.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“A what?”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“A spell.” How could she explain to him the complexities of the invisible world that inhabited her fingertips? The tiny spirit-servants that could weave spells on command from infinitesimal grains of matter. She had no understanding of them herself, and possessed no words that might interpret them to others. For her, explanations weren’t necessary. A new instinct had roused within her, and as she knew how to eat and drink, so she knew how to heal with a touch. She sighed. “You need food, but we don’t have any now. If we can get more water, Sumiati will cook rice in the afternoon.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Sumiati had been a hero today. When the dog had attacked the warehouse, she’d grabbed the stove and the rice pot, while ordering the children to save the rice before they fled together into the street. The hammocks had been lost though, and most of the plastic jugs. Also the collapsible plastic crates and the tarp that had been their home before they found the warehouse.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“I need a telephone,” Sandor said.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Phousita nodded. “Arif has gone to find one. But he has no money to pay the operator. He must find someone willing to provide the service on credit.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Where money was absent, sometimes skills could be bartered. The Knives had hired themselves out to pay the rent on this room. They’d earned their first night here by evicting the previous tenants: three men, all infected with a debilitating plague that gradually turned their skin into beautiful, inflexible golden shells like the skin of the Buddha that presided over the temple by the park. A statue cannot walk or work. The fat old matron who owned the line of tenements had related the unhappy fact that it had been a week since any of them had left the room, a week since the rent had been paid. The Knives carried the afflicted men nearly a mile to the Christian hospital, then left them at the end of a long line of sufferers.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Now Phousita’s inner vision had shifted to a different forest, a different point of view. She crouched in the shadows, her whole body focused on the progress of a bright red, stilt-legged bug as it walked through a swath of sunlight that had fallen across her leaf. Instinct spurred her to action. She scuttled into the sunlight, snatched the bug in her jaws and bit hard. Horrible poisons flooded her body. Her mouth opened. She dropped the carcass and staggered back toward the illusory safety of her shady lair.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Why do you live like this?” Sandor asked.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	She looked at him in surprise. “What other way is there for us?”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Sandor’s fists closed indignantly. “A thousand other ways! There are new ways being invented all the time. <span class="none2">It does not have to be like this.” </span><span class="none">His hand swept the room in a contemptuous gesture. “There can be enough for everyone. It’s just that your government has forbidden Makers. For religious reasons, I think.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita shrugged. She didn’t understand this. She wondered pensively if Sandor were completely sane. His memories were too wonderful. Who could live in a cloud forest with no canopy and no ground, where the monkeys talked like men? Who could have a brother who was not a man, but a blue china human spider? Her eyes flew open wide; her hand covered her mouth. The old woman had visited her this morning. The old woman had tried to warn her. She’d talked of such outlandish things so many times…. “Are you a god?” Phousita whispered.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor closed his eyes, and for the first time since Arif had pulled him from the river, he seemed to relax. “Not me,” he said easily. Then he opened one eye. “How about you?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She ducked her head, her face flushing hot. Shame crowded her mind. Hadn’t she just wondered if she’d been granted a goddess’s vision? Stupid country girl! “I’m only a witch, </span><span class="none2">tuan,” </span><span class="none">she whispered.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He started to lean forward, then remembered his nudity and covered himself with his limbs as best he could. She sighed. Though she respected his modesty, she could do nothing to help him. The clan had no clothes to spare.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“How’d you know about Sax?” Sandor asked. “And don’t just shrug, please. Who hired you? What do they want with me? What’s going on?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She turned away, startled at his accusation, so similar to the harsh words of the Chinese doctor. “It’s not like that, </span><span class="none2">tuan.” </span><span class="none">She couldn’t imagine who would hire her, who would entrust her with the care of this stranger—so healthy, pure, beautiful—he must be the cherished servant of a great power. “I don’t know anything. I’m just a witch.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“But that’s something, Phousita. I’ve never met a witch before.” He lifted his hand, wanting to touch her, though he didn’t quite dare. What was the custom here? She seemed to be something of a shaman. Though she didn’t demand respect, he wanted to offer it. He didn’t know how. And the stifling heat in this shack had numbed his brain. Or was that a residual gift of the local police? He didn’t know, couldn’t think. He wanted to go outside, breathe clean air, eat. But he had no clothes and didn’t want to offend anybody. Oh, Summer House, hurry before he ran the wrong code and somebody took mortal offense.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He looked up as the bright rectangle of the doorway darkened. Arif swept aside the thin cloth that served as a door and entered the foul little room. A boy with nut-brown skin and wispy blue hair followed him. Sandor forgot his vow of decorum when he saw what the boy carried in his right hand. He leapt to his feet, almost cracking his head on the rafters. “You got it!” he shouted, reaching for the precious telephone.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The boy snatched it out of his grasp with a vicious snarl. He jabbered angrily at Arif, then started to leave. But Arif barked a quick command, and two children blocked the door, a knife dancing silently between their hands, passed with the skill of practiced jugglers. The boy turned back to Arif, muttering something that sounded obscene. But he offered the telephone.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif took it. “Make your call,” he growled, handing it to Sandor. “Make sure you get through. This boy’s papa will use white skin in his brothel if he can’t get paid any other way.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor took the phone with shaking hands. He felt as if he’d slipped through the Looking Glass into a world that was an inverse of his own. Poverty, violence, exploitation: before today he’d never witnessed them. He hadn’t really known they’d existed. Why? Why had the House kept him ignorant of this world?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He turned over the phone; stared at it a moment. “I, uh … I don’t know the number. The cops wiped that out when they—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif said something to the boy. The kid sneered and rolled his eyes, but he took the phone back from Sandor and punched in a code. Arif listened to his explanation, then translated: “Information,” he said. “The voice will help you. You do know who you want to talk to?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Sure.” Regional headquarters. “Summer House-at-Earth,” he told the computer, while keeping a wary eye on Arif. A moment later he was greeted by a pleasant, masculine voice.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Summer House Incorporated: Achieving personal security through diverse and abundant life. You’ve reached our offices at Castle. How may we help you?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“This is Corporate Member Sandor Jiang-Tibayan declaring a personal emergency. I have no ID. My codes are broken. I’ve sustained personal and system injury. Help me. I must speak to David Enberg, </span><span class="none2">now.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Please hold.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	He closed his eyes, breathing slowly through the suspense. How would the computer answer? <span class="none2">Please don’t tell me I’m dead, </span><span class="none">he thought. </span><span class="none2">Just don’t tell me I’m dead.</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	David Enberg directed the regional security wing. <span class="none2">(Should I have asked for a subordinate?) </span><span class="none">Maybe the computer would classify him as a crackpot. But he didn’t know any of David’s subordinates. Didn’t know David, really. Had only met him for a few minutes nearly a month ago. Sandor came from Summer House, not Castle. First time Earthside—</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Sandor?” a doubtful voice spoke from the telephone.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“David, it’s me!” Sandor shouted. He paused long enough to nod triumphantly at Arif. “I was arrested! The municipal police. Oh, David, you don’t know what it’s like down here. They wiped out my atrium, and—and Nikko, too, I guess. Everything. Help me, David. Send somebody for me, please. Send money. They’ll kill me if they don’t get something.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“It’ll be all right now, Sandor. Calm down. Calm down. We got your distress packet. We know you had a run-in with the municipal police.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“A run-in? David, they had me in their station.” He heard his voice going shrill; took a breath to calm himself. “Send somebody, David.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Sandor?” A woman’s voice this time. “This is Marevic Chun.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	His mouth opened in astonishment. Marevic Chun was the regional </span><span class="none2">president </span><span class="none">of Summer House-at-Earth; she commanded all corporate operations Earthside. Why had she come on line for him?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“We’re astounded to find you alive,” she said. “Our agents on the ground led us to believe the worst. Where are you?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I don’t know. In a slum somewhere. The cops thought I was dead so they dumped me in a river. Arif fished me out. You can trace this call, can’t you, Marevic? Send somebody for me?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Are you safe where you are?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He frowned in confusion. Arif observed his change of expression and stepped forward, his eyes hard. Turning away, Sandor hissed into -the phone. “What’s the matter, Marevic? Why don’t you just send someone?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“We’d like to, Sandor. But things are a real mess up here. Nikko had some trouble with the Commonwealth Police, and unfortunately, your name got mixed into the fray. If Kirstin Adair finds out you’re alive, she’ll have you on trial in an hour. So stay put. Stay hidden. I need time to sort through Nikko’s notes and prepare your defense or the police will crucify you.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“But why? What did I do wrong?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Nothing, Sandor. You just got caught up in other people’s games.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“But you can’t leave me here! You don’t know what they said they’d do to me!” Arif started to snatch the phone. Sandor jerked it away from him. “Marevic, you have to help me!”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif caught his wrist and yanked the phone out of his hand. “You want this boy back, you will pay for him </span><span class="none2">now,” </span><span class="none">Arif growled into the receiver. He glared at Sandor while he listened to Marevic’s reply. It seemed to go on so long. But finally, he nodded. “Sure, if that’s what you want.” He clicked the phone off and handed it back to the blue-haired boy, a wicked grin on his face. He uttered an ear-splitting whoop of triumph, then turned to Phousita, caught her up in his arms and kissed her. Incomprehensible words ran off his tongue, interspersed with laughs. Phousita appeared uncertain. “You’re going to stay with us!” Arif barked. Then he laughed at Sandor’s look of dismay. “Marevic’s paying us to take care of you. Hope you like it here in the Spill. She says it could be a couple of days before they can retrieve you.”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The afternoon ground past with impossible slowness. Sandor’s captors had left him alone in the shack. He could hear some of the children playing outside, but he didn’t hear Phousita, and he didn’t see her when he peered past the curtained doorway.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Where had she gone? Inexplicably, he found he missed her. He held his head in his hands. The heat and humidity were making him dizzy. Or maybe it was the lack of food. His belly growled. He wished he knew the local word for water. Yesterday, it would have been so easy to consult a library. Today …</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He felt like a victim of tunnel vision. All he could see were the crumbling walls of this room. All he could hear was the brave laughter of the children out in the street and a blend of voices beyond them. These had become the boundaries of his perception.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	What had Nikko done to get him into this mess?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He dozed.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Or at least that’s how he accounted to himself for the time that ultimately passed.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He was roused by a shrill cry in the distance, a commanding ululation that rose suddenly over the slum’s continuous low mutter of noise. The children outside quieted instantly. Sandor sat up. In their low whispers he heard Arif’s name.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The whoop sounded again and this time the children answered with their own shrill cries. Sandor crouched in the shadows near the door and looked out.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif had come back. He’d brought Phousita with him. They each carried two distended plastic sacks. The children crowded and cavorted around them while Arif set the sacks on the ground. Sandor watched in fascination as he began producing treasures from the bags. Bananas—one for everybody—mangos, thin slices of meat on a stick, calorie bars, a bag of peanuts—</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor felt a wave of dizziness sweep across him. He pressed his forehead against the termite-eaten wood. Splinters jabbed at his hands. He tasted dirt in his mouth. Someone nudged at his shoulder. Pushed harder until he rolled over. He found himself lying on his back on the shack’s dirt floor, looking up at Arif’s laughing face a thousand kilometers above him. “Don’t die on us, </span><span class="none2">tuan. </span><span class="none">Marevic expects to have you back someday.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Here, drink this,” Phousita said. She knelt at his side, holding a plastic jug to his lips. “Forgive me, </span><span class="none2">tuan. </span><span class="none">I should not have left you alone.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He drank. The warm water slid down his throat and the awful buzzing in his head began to recede. He pushed himself to a sitting position; held his pounding head in his hands. “We have food,” Phousita said.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I’m not hungry.” He thought he might puke if he put anything in his mouth now.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif laughed at him. “Got one of those ‘delicate’ constitutions?” he asked. “Too bad. But we’ll eat again tomorrow.” He dropped a bundle at Sandor’s feet. “Get yourself dressed. I’m tried of looking at your dick.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif had brought him a pair of khaki work pants, patched at the knees and butt and a little too small, but Sandor took them gratefully. He slipped them on, while a little girl stood in the door eating a banana and watching him.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita brought him two bananas and a slice of meat on a stick. He took the food and ate ravenously, his nausea forgotten. Phousita watched him, a pleased smile on her face. He grinned at her, then drank more water. Outside, Arif produced another prize from his last bag. Some sort of confection, Sandor surmised, by the squeals of the children. Arif carefully divided the treat amongst the little ones, then squatted on the pavement, his clown face reflecting smug satisfaction as he watched them greedily devour his gift.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Did you spend everything?” Sandor asked.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif scowled at him. “Stay out of sight,” he warned. Then: “I spent only a tiny part of it.” He patted the belt at his waist. “I’ve never held so much money before, not even that last night when I parted from my master. But it’s nothing to Summer House, is it?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A child pulled at the hem of Arif’s shorts, interrupting him. The little girl who’d been watching Sandor dress. She rubbed her stomach and groaned, then sat down abruptly on the pavement. Arif’s arm went around her shoulders as she began to jerk convulsively. She threw up on the ground, then stared in shock at what she’d done. A moment later she was sobbing hysterically against Arif’s chest.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He stared past her, his absurd face stunned, helpless. The food had been too rich, Sandor realized. Her system wasn’t used to it, couldn’t handle it. Other children were already holding their middles, groaning in pain as their bellies cramped in protest at the unaccustomed feast. Arif had poisoned them with his gift.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“It’s all right,” Phousita said. Sandor’s gaze followed her voice. She crouched beside a little boy who lay on the pavement, his knees pulled up to his chest, his face knotted in pain. She pressed her hand against his belly, and a few seconds later his face began to relax, his body began to straighten. Phousita left him to visit another child, then another. She touched each one of them, easing their pain with a soft stroke of her palm.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor stared after her in amazement. Without thinking, he stepped outside the hut and approached her. She knelt beside the last child, the little girl who’d already lost her meal—the only meal she could expect that day. She said something to the girl, and the child smiled and nodded. Then Sandor was at her side. He caught up both her hands in his and turned them over. Tiny white glands glinted wetly in her palms just below the knuckles, along her fingers, and on her fingertips. Sandor touched them gingerly. He’d never seen a mutation like this one. She could heal with a touch. Somehow the glands must generate healing Makers that could cross the barrier of a patient’s skin. But how did she program the Makers? How did she direct them to their tasks? (And how had she developed this remarkable talent amidst the degradation and ignorance of the Spill?)</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She lifted her hands, staring at them as if she’d never seen them before. “I’ve changed them,” she muttered.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He frowned. “You didn’t know?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She shook her head slowly, wonderingly. “There have been so many changes, so quickly, since…”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Ah …”: a soft sigh of disappointment. He’d imagined the healing touch to be a system of her own design. “You don’t understand your abilities, do you?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She bowed her head, her shoulders hunched as if in shame. “No, </span><span class="none2">tuan. </span><span class="none">I’ve become a witch but I don’t know what I can do, or why, or how, until the very moment something needs to be done. Even then, I do nothing but obey the spirit of the sorcerer that inhabits me.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor nodded his understanding. He imagined that it could feel that way. “You command a very powerful Maker,” he said. “How did you learn to do that?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She gazed at him with a confused, disoriented face, so that he knew immediately she didn’t understand him. He bowed his head and sighed, his fingers rubbing at the stinging sweat that clouded his eyes. Her Maker had taught her to speak English; she knew every word he knew. Yet he sensed she did not </span><span class="none2">understand </span><span class="none">the words. Raw knowledge without an adequate frame of reference.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Leave her alone,” Arif growled. He stood behind Sandor’s shoulder. As Sandor started to turn, Arif placed his foot against Sandor’s butt and shoved, toppling him to the pavement. Sandor scrambled quickly to his feet, anger rushing in discrete packets through his veins. “She’s a sorceress and her powers are growing,” Arif shouted at him. </span><span class="none2">“You </span><span class="none">are the one who doesn’t understand what’s going on here.” Arif stepped forward, closing the distance between himself and Sandor. “Look here. And here,” he said, jabbing his steely fingers into Sandor’s chest, forcing him to stumble back. “She touched you. Look what her magic has done.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor looked. His chest was unblemished. His jaw dropped. Gingerly, he touched the site of the burns he’d received under interrogation, the laceration where they’d cut his ID chip out of his arm. …</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	All sign of the injuries had vanished.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor’s gaze jerked back to Phousita. “This is not magic,” he hissed. “It’s technology. A technology </span><span class="none2">banned </span><span class="none">by the Commonwealth.” The children crowded them anxiously. In their dark eyes Sandor read confusion, and fear. They couldn’t understand his words, but like Arif they recognized his doubt. And they resented it. </span><span class="none2">Why do you question Phousita? </span><span class="none">their earnest faces seemed to demand. For she must be as a goddess to them. A sweet savior ready to lift away some of the agony of their existence. And now he must condemn her.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He spoke softly, earnestly, knowing he had to convince her. “This talent that’s taken you … it’s not a blessing. This is not a way you can live. Phousita, you have to be careful. If the police discover what you can do, they’ll extradite you. If they can’t cleanse your body of the Maker, they’ll terminate you. There’s no mercy in this. The Commonwealth exists to stamp out the kind of talent you’ve become.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Liar!” Arif shouted. “You want her for yourself.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I’m not lying! I—” He broke off abruptly. What </span><span class="none2">was </span><span class="none">he trying to do? He couldn’t help her. He’d had some nebulous intention of offering her refuge at Summer House, but that was absurd. Even if she were willing to leave Arif and the children, she could never get through police Gates carrying an illegal Maker. “I just want you to live, Phousita. Get rid of the Maker now, if you can. All the money in the world won’t stop the cops once they scent your trail.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif stepped forward, shaking his outrageous head. “Back inside,” he growled. “You’re the fugitive. Back inside before the police find </span><span class="none2">you.”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	At nightfall the children started crowding into the shack, lying down upon the floor or under the shelf, giggling and whispering until Sumiati shushed them with a song.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita came into the dark hut later, carrying a flashlight. Sandor watched her, his eyes half closed. She stepped carefully over the sleeping children; he didn’t know how she found room to place her feet.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Suddenly, he realized she was coming to him. He stiffened, caught between anxiety and glee. What could she want of him? Where was Arif? In a panic, he closed his eyes and pretended to sleep. A moment later, he felt the touch of her hand against his shoulder as she lay down, squeezing in between him and a young boy of eight or nine. Where was Arif? He could feel her breath on his cheek. It was scented. It reminded him of the perfume of some exotic flower. Against his best intentions, he looked.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She’d slipped a brown cloth over the flashlight, so only a little light came through. It was enough to set her eyes aglow with an aura he’d seen only once, in an old Dutch painting. His heart raced. He tried to remember if Arif had come into the shack with the children. He didn’t think so, but it was so hot. He couldn’t be sure. What did she want from him?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita frowned, a puzzled expression on her face. Then she touched a finger to his neck, and immediately, his body began to cool. Fear left him, tension began to bleed out of every pore, and the shack no longer seemed so oppressive. Her frown turned to a smile. “Arif won’t be back for many hours,” she whispered.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor nodded, his mind toying with the possibilities inherent in that news. Her face was all that he could see in the world, and he wanted nothing more. “What did you do to me?” he whispered.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“A spell to soothe, that’s all.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He smiled, delighted at her skill. “I want to touch you.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She seemed pleased. “Yes. Do.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	With his fingertips he touched her cheek, her lips. Her skin was smooth and dry. “Who </span><span class="none2">are </span><span class="none">you?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The smile left her face. She looked away, and he was instantly sorry he’d asked. “No one.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Phousita—” His hand was left hovering in midair.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I’m only a servant of the sorcerer who rides me,” she whispered. She looked at him again, took his hand and placed it once more against her cheek. He drew closer to her, until their foreheads touched. “He brought you here, you know,” she said. “They were going to put you on the funeral truck, but he suggested they throw you in the river instead.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor scowled, confused. “How—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She showed him her palm again. “I have many tiny servants. They drift about the air like dust. They tell me of the world, and sometimes, they’ll do things for me.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor nodded his understanding. “They’re like behavioral viruses, then.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I don’t know, </span><span class="none2">tuan. </span><span class="none">I’m just glad that they—” Her gaze fell; she took his hand, pressed her lips against his palm. “I’m so glad you’re still alive. I have never … I—I. …” She closed her eyes and sighed. “I enjoy what I sense in you. It makes me happy.” Her eyes popped open. “You’re happy too? With me?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He almost quailed before the earnestness of her gaze. He had never been happier, he wanted to tell her that, but it was too ridiculous to say. Proper words eluded him, until suddenly he realized he didn’t need words. She smiled and nodded and they kissed. Her mouth was warm and inviting.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Your face was in my dreams,” she muttered. “I had to find you.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He kissed her cheeks and her neck. She was so tiny! He didn’t want to go too far. There were children all around. His hand found a way inside her breastcloth though, and he stroked her nipples, while her tongue performed delightful acts on his ear.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Come back to Summer House with me,” he begged.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She drew back, her eyes aglow with pleasure. “I will dream of that.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“No! I’ll make it real.” His own determination frightened him. He didn’t understand how his feelings for her could be so strong, so soon.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sensing his hesitation, she pulled away. “I still don’t know who </span><span class="none2">you </span><span class="none">are,” she said. “Why are you important to the sorcerer? When he first came to me, the only thing he could remember of all the world was your face. Why?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor shook his head. “I don’t know. It doesn’t matter. Come to Summer House with me.” He started to kiss her again, but she turned her face away.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">“Don’t,” </span><span class="none">she said, a cold chill of fear in her voice. “I was wrong. Arif is coming </span><span class="none2">now. </span><span class="none">He despises you. Please go to sleep.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor bristled. “I’m not afraid of Arif.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She touched her Fingers to his lips. “Then </span><span class="none2">be </span><span class="none">afraid, for me.” She flicked the flashlight off, then wriggled over so that her back was to him.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">“Phousita!” </span><span class="none">he hissed. He touched her shoulder. </span><span class="none2">“Phousita!” </span><span class="none">But she refused to answer. By her breathing, she seemed to be already asleep.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor sighed and lay back against the wooden shelf. He didn’t find the transition to sleep so easy. He stared into the dark, listening to the sounds of the sleeping children, wondering what magic it would take to get Phousita out of the Spill. After a while, the cloth that served as a door rustled, and Arif came in. His face glowed an eerie yellow in the dark. He crouched by the door, staring into the hut as if he were trying to find someone. Sandor watched him until fatigue finally closed his eyes.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He awoke at dawn, Phousita still beside him. He stood slowly, cautiously, unsteady on his feet, then picked his way carefully to the door through a tangle of sleeping bodies. He must relieve himself in the street. His hand touched the soft, splintered wood of the door frame. He lifted the cloth door aside—and swayed in shock!</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A mass of humanity filled the street. Intent. All eyes on him. Except for a meter-wide demicircle around the door that they’d left respectfully void, he couldn’t see how another individual could squeeze into the alley. He shivered in the eerie silence and ducked back inside the hut.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif stood at his shoulder. “They’ve come,” he said quietly, as if he’d expected this.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Why are they here?” Sandor whispered.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif stepped past him, to peer around the edge of the cloth. “To see the messiah. The fools. But I’ll make her their queen.”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p></div></div></div></div></body></html>
