<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta name="generator" content="http://calibre-ebook.com"/>
    <title>Linda Nagata - Nanotech Succession 01</title>
    <meta name="author" content="The Bohr Maker"/>
    <meta name="creation-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta name="revision-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre1">
<div class="calibre1"><div class="s2"><h2 class="calibre4" id="calibre_pb_11">   <span class="none3">CHAPTER</span></h2><h2 class="calibre5"></h2></div><div class="calibre1"><div class="s3"><h3 class="calibre6"> <span class="none3">11</span></h3><h3 class="calibre6"></h3></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> </span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin sat in stony silence, staring at Nikko’s corpse. It was sprawled in a dense patch of grasses on the edge of a meadow, the long blue limbs bent at awkward angles. His body had the slick, wet look of a newborn baby. But he was dead.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She huddled a few meters away, crouched against the warm surface of a rock that protruded from the brown meadow grass, the two-thirds G of Summer House pulling like an oppressive weight against her shoulders. Her skin and hair and clothes were still slick with the organic gel that filled the transit system of Summer House. The House was a fully organic habitat—an entity, some would say. And it had turned on Nikko. It had killed him.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She shivered despite the heat, remembering the sight of the apartment walls coming down around them, as if reality had suddenly melted, pouring in upon them like hot jelly….</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	To escape the image, she forced herself to stand up, to pace the surface of the meadow. This incarnation was heavier, bulkier than her primary on Castle, well muscled to withstand House gravity, but less graceful than her accustomed form.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She flexed her arms and looked about. Except for Nikko’s corpse, she was quite alone. Birds sang in the surrounding forest, undaunted by the oppressive heat. A slight wind flowed in from a break in the broad-leafed trees. With a shrug, she followed the breeze to the edge of the meadow—also, she discovered, the edge of a cliff.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Standing quietly a few steps back from the precipice, she gazed at the wall of another cliff, some two hundred meters away across a gulf of open air. It was studded with windows, and it rose far higher than the one on which she stood. Her gaze followed it up, until she was forced to crane her neck, squinting against the glare. Even then the summit eluded her behind a slowly roiling bank of fog.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She looked down. The windowed cliff seemed to descend at least a kilometer below her, rooted in darkness.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin grunted, impressed despite herself. So this was the hollow interior of Summer House. She’d never experienced it directly, though she’d studied it for many decades.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The House was a mockery of Gaia. The “oceans” were on the outside: walls composed of huge, discrete cells of water that were maintained as a habitat for a multitude of aquatic organisms while doubling as a massive radiation shield. Inside this was the city proper, a fairly conventional ring of apartments and parks, shops and offices, and factories. The windowed cliff that faced her across the gulf was the inner wall of the city.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But it was the hollow interior cylinder that made Summer House famous.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	This massive space—over four kilometers high and two across—housed a vertical forest hung on a supporting structure of freely branching, curvilinear beams fifteen meters in diameter. This was the “heartwood,” the bones of Summer House, a massive, treelike structure upon which all the rest of the House had been hung: the encapsulated oceans, the apartment complexes, the forest. The heartwood spanned the height of the forest, from bed to apex, and provided the rooting foundation for most of its trees. Its branches bridged the gap of open sky around the forest and fused with the surrounding walls. Inside the heartwood, a transit system piped nutrients, water, life-forms, heat, and light as Summer House actively maintained an equilibrium between its varied components. Myriad tiny, nonsentient brains regulated the system. Kirstin wondered if any one of them in particular had ordered Nikko’s murder.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Her forced journey through the transit system had been blind, hot, and terrifying. There’d been no transit bubble to protect her from the heated fluids pumped through the circulatory system of this mindless behemoth. She and Nikko had been wrapped in a thin sac, like a chorionic membrane, two twins pressed together in the womb. His frantic struggles had bruised her. But his sudden stillness was worse. She’d panicked, certain that her turn was next. But no. The House had freed her, dumping her through a portal and into this meadow. Why?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A condor appeared in the gulf of open air, climbing up from below in a lazy spiral, its great wings hardly moving as it mounted higher and higher, rising on a convection current until it encountered a patch of sky: a horizontal platform the size of a small lake, mounted on a branch of heartwood. The sky emitted blue light from below, while supporting a treeless bog on its upper surface. Tendrils of fog appeared above the dense grasses, only to be whisked away by the wind.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The condor veered away from the obstruction, wheeling around the curve of the vertical canopy. The sight stirred memories in her, of times almost a hundred years past. She breathed in the scent of the forest, remembering the dangerous days with Leander, the Colombian rain forest, the guns that had flowed through her hands like water.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	They’d fought for the Goddess then. And they’d won, in a way. The ravaged body of Mother Earth would need millennia to repair, but the Commonwealth tended what it could. Not out of devotion of course. But for purely economic reasons. Molecular prospectors were still extracting fortunes from the forest resource. Fox had been one of them. He’d made his fortune in Ecuador. Then, with exemplary human illogic, he’d abandoned the Mother to construct this rubber-doll mockery of the body of Gaia.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She spat contemptuously into the grass.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Summer House was not </span><span class="none2">real. </span><span class="none">None of the life-forms here were natural. Every one of them had been genetically tailored to suit this artificial ecosystem. So the House could not even claim status as a museum. It was a fatuous experiment, and no more.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Chief Adair!” The shout resounded across the meadow. She turned, to see three uniformed police officers emerge from the gray door of an arched portal set in a rough earthen bank—the same portal that had earlier spit forth herself and what was left of Nikko. “We got your distress call,” the lead officer shouted. “But we had a bitch of a time finding you. The House didn’t want to admit you were—</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“My God,” he said, as he almost stumbled over Nikko’s body. “What happened to … ?” His question trailed off and he looked up guiltily. Kirstin knew he was weighing the possibility that his boss had performed an unwarranted execution.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She crossed the meadow. By the time she reached the huddled officers, the portal was active again. The silhouette of a human figure appeared in it. At first half-sized, it grew rapidly larger. A moment later a red-haired, florid-faced old man stumbled from the arch. She grinned as she recognized him: Fox Jiang-Tibayan.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She stepped aside, so that he might have a clear view of Nikko’s corpse.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The sight seemed to transfix Fox. He uttered a little cry of anguish, then fell to his knees beside the body, his hands running in a practiced medical routine across Nikko’s neck, head, and chest. Kirstin squatted across from him. “He’s dead,” she said, more to inflict another wound than to impart any information. “Your House killed him. Did you design it to behave that way?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He spared her a solitary glance, then bowed his head against Nikko’s motionless chest.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	At the portal, yet another figure was emerging, and then another and another until there were six. All with the appearance of twenty-somethings, they huddled around Fox, talking in low whispers. Kirstin tossed back her gel-slicked hair and strode into their midst. They gave way before her, seeming almost as frightened of her as they were of Nikko’s remains. She nudged at the still blue-china body with the toe of her shoe. “So who do I arrest for murder, Fox?” she asked. “You? Or the House? Who do I get to charge with the kidnapping and assault of a Commonwealth police officer?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“It was an accident,” Fox said, in a weak voice that was barely audible over the sound of the wind in the trees.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The twenty-somethings murmured angrily. “Leave him alone,” one young man warned. “His son is dead.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin studied the body dubiously. Nikko certainly </span><span class="none2">seemed </span><span class="none">dead. But in the modern world it was hard to be sure. She pinned the twenty-something with her gaze. “Why?” she asked. “Why is he dead?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The young man seemed struck dumb. No matter. Fox answered for him. “He never had a mind for molecular detail. He would use my tools without understanding them. He would use them for things I had never intended.” Fox finally looked up. His face was haggard. There were actual tears in his eyes. He looked every part the grieving father. But some inner sense told Kirstin she was watching a performance.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Were you developing illegal tech, old man?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“No!” He fired off the word like a bullet. “Your people watch me closely enough. You know that.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Then what happened to him?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“He was using tech illegally. He wanted to live. He wanted to escape from </span><span class="none2">you. </span><span class="none">He expected to be arrested, you know. So he programmed the House to rescue him and record his pattern if it looked like his freedom was in danger. He thought he could hide his pattern in the House neural plexus.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin stiffened. She felt her lips pull back from her teeth. “Can he?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox’s eyes narrowed. His bitterness oozed through. “That would be illegal, now wouldn’t it?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Can he, old man?” Kirstin pressed.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox’s brief defiance faded. He seemed to sink in upon himself, and once again he was the weak, grieving, aged father. “The House was constructed under the guidance of the Commonwealth Committee on Technology. The plexus executes a search for unregistered programs every thirty seconds and evicts any that it finds.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Nikko must have known that,” she insisted.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox shrugged. “Nikko believed he could find a way around every rule—and generally, he could. But this time he didn’t have a chance to work out the details.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“So it was Nikko who ordered the House to commit his own murder.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“He didn’t want to be interrogated; he might have given himself away.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin stood cock-hipped, coolly evaluating the old man. She knew a piece of fiction when she heard it. Nikko wasn’t dead. He was somewhere in the body of the House; he had to be. Because a devoted father like Fox could always be counted on to shelter a wayward child.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko’s ghost stood hunched in anger in front of the desk of Marevic Chun, regional president of Summer House-at-Earth. “I almost had it, Marevic,” he hissed. “Bohr’s Maker. Here in my hand. But Van Ness let it slip away. And now Sandor’s gone.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Marevic nodded grimly. She sat at her desk, a slightly built, dark-haired, fragile-faced woman who somehow looked her age, despite the youthful smoothness of her brown skin. Perhaps it was the eyes: cold and reptilian. Perhaps it was the antique bent of her mannerisms.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Or perhaps it was the coloring of his own prejudice. He loved Marevic Chun … the same way a schoolboy might have loved his first-grade teacher—most respectfully. She’d taught him how to play tag with the police and she’d never been caught.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	They shared a deeper affinity too, though neither admitted it aloud. When Fox had developed Nikko in his lab, he’d started with genetic material from himself and a female donor. Nikko had been eleven when he’d broken into that research file. He’d been inspired by Sandor’s birth to see how much they had genetically in common. He recalled the pleasure and astonishment he’d felt at learning that Marevic figured in his parentage. Sandor had been conceived from different donor stock. Why? Nikko suspected that Fox had not been entirely happy with his first child, and that he’d seen no reason to repeat his original mistake.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Marevic had never shown the same prejudice. She’d always treated him in a straightforward way. “We received a distress packet from Sandor nearly half an hour ago,” she told him. “He was in Sunda at the time. We haven’t been able to trace him.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko felt his mouth fall open. “So the police don’t have him?” That was very bad. If Sandor were in the hands of the Commonwealth Police, it was reasonable to expect he would survive at least the few hours it would take to prepare a trial. But if he were simply missing….</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Marevic looked down at her desk, while her small fingers lightly stroked its marbled surface. “The municipal police may have him.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Love and Nature.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	If she replied to his oath, he missed it. He was already consulting the net, seeking out a mule to ride through the hell of urban Sunda. He would find Sandor. He had to find Sandor.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Nikko!”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	His gaze roved outward, briefly.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Don’t go,” she said. “I want you to stay with me. It’s only a matter of time before Kirstin runs over your trail. She’ll have the Gate filters set for you. You have to take care. You could be the last surviving copy of yourself.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Huh. If she’s hunting copies of me, she’s not going to overlook </span><span class="none2">your </span><span class="none">head.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Anger flashed across Marevic’s delicate face. “This is serious, Nikko. Big time.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He nodded. “Call me if you hear anything.” Then he sent his ghost to Earth.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A few hours later, Kirstin’s consciousness rejoined the body she’d left at Castle mausoleum. While she dressed, she checked in with Allende, voice only.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He told her: “The dogs followed the Maker’s trail to a city herbalist. Zeke Choy, an ex-cop out of Haskin’s.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin ran the name through her atrium notebook, but came up with nothing. “Never heard of him,” she said, as she pulled on the black tunic of her police uniform.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“He was a draftee. Had a bad attitude; didn’t last long.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She jumped into her shorts, then checked the drift of her hair in the projection on the wall of the transition room. “He the Jiang-Tibayan contact?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“No.” Allende sounded puzzled. “He doesn’t seem to have any connection with Summer House. But he has a patient—a young woman he calls Phousita—he believes she’s been infected by an uncataloged Maker, but he hasn’t been able to identify its structure. He seems very fond of her; very protective.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You’ve picked her up?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Uh, no. We haven’t been able to find her yet.” After a heavy silence, Allende added reluctantly: “Actually, we haven’t found a trace of the Maker since detaining Choy.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Love and Nature,” Kirstin hissed softly. “It’s mutated.” She studied her reflection in the mirror, remembering her days with Leander and how he’d used the Maker to change and change and change again, leading the police on a merry chase that only ended when she’d betrayed him.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	What worked once could work again. “You say this Choy is fond of the girl?” she asked Allende. “Then ask him if he’ll help us find her. Suggest to him that if he does not, we can’t be responsible for her safety.” She smiled at her image. Choy would understand the social structure of the Spill. And her ghost could ride an ex-cop as easily as it could ride any other dog.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p></div></div></div></div></body></html>
