<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta name="generator" content="http://calibre-ebook.com"/>
    <title>Linda Nagata - Nanotech Succession 01</title>
    <meta name="author" content="The Bohr Maker"/>
    <meta name="creation-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta name="revision-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre1">
<div class="calibre1"><div class="s2"><h2 class="calibre4" id="calibre_pb_16">   <span class="none3">CHAPTER</span></h2><h2 class="calibre5"></h2></div><div class="calibre1"><div class="s3"><h3 class="calibre6"> <span class="none3">16</span></h3><h3 class="calibre6"></h3></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> </span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor sat huddled in the corner of a bunk in a windowless cell on Castle. He stared at the walls. They were a plush, soft gray, very businesslike. He pulled his knees closer to his chest, breathing shallowly. It hurt to move. It hurt to breathe. The medic who’d been in earlier said his ribs had been broken. The shattered bone ends had punctured both his lungs. He’d been more or less dead, there in the Spill.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He shifted, trying to find a more endurable position, but only managed to shove himself away from the wall in the almost nonexistent gravity. His last memories before waking here were of a painless state of grace, lying in the mud at Phousita’s feet. He had no idea how much time had passed between now and then.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The cell door slipped open. Two police dogs entered the little chamber, shuffling forward, their feet never breaking contact with the floor, so that Sandor knew they’d been dealing with the micro-G all their lives. One took up a post by the door. The other glided to him as if it were the family pet, shoving its hideous head into his face, its nostrils whuffing hot air. He started to twist away, then winced in pain.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Behind the dogs came a uniformed cop. She paused at the door, studying him with eyes the color of honey in a pot. Her hair was long, full, kinked and coppery; she kept it off her face with a black sash across her forehead—a style that seemed vaguely African. He recognized her, of course. Most citizens of the Commonwealth would. She was the Chief of Police, Kirstin Adair.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She approached him, then knelt at the side of the bed, her gaze still fixed on his face, studying him as if he were some mindless exhibit she’d come to view, and not a self-aware being at all. He felt his heart hammer in his chest. His lungs burned.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She said: “I knew your brother Nikko. We were very close, you know.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor’s voice cracked. “The medic told me he was dead.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She nodded. “He is. Even his ghosts are gone.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor thought about the copy of Nikko’s ghost that had accompanied him on the flight to Sunda, wiped out by the kem-wand of the municipal police. That had been his fault. If he’d followed Nikko’s advice, if he’d stayed in the terminal, maybe things would have been all right. Maybe the local cops would have left him alone and—</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Why did you let Nikko get you involved in this mess?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He blinked and looked up at Kirstin, suddenly aware that his attention had wandered. “What mess?” he asked. “Why am I under arrest? I didn’t do anything. I was assaulted by the municipal police in Sunda. Why aren’t you following up on that? Why am I here?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin’s heavy lips turned in a slight, hungry smile that belied her kindly voice and made him shiver. “You’re involved in a very serious crime, Sandor. You’re presently in possession of an illegal Maker that is functioning as a beacon inside your body, continuously shedding information packets that advertise your position. We’ve identified it as a derivative of an antique Maker whose pattern was stolen from police files.” Her eyebrows rose in question. “Are you expecting a rescue?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“No!” Sandor blurted out. He gazed at her in stunned disbelief. “I don’t know anything about a stolen Maker. I’ve never accessed police files. I don’t—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	His protest broke off in mid-sentence. Once again he was seeing the odd little glands on Phousita’s hands. He felt a cold sweat break out across his face. “She was poisoned,” he whispered. “She didn’t know what she had.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You mean Phousita, don’t you?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He stared at Kirstin, dread flowing like cold water through his veins. “Did you arrest her too?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin’s expression stiffened into a macabre facsimile of a smile. “You’re in very serious trouble,” she told him. “The research scientist who committed the theft named you as a willful accomplice.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“No! That’s a lie. I don’t even know—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She interrupted him, her voice gentle, sympathetic, insistent. “You resisted arrest by the Sunda police.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“No. They never gave me a chance to—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You refused to cooperate with their lawful interrogation. You escaped from their custody by employing an illegal physiological modification. Immediately following your escape, you joined your accomplice, this </span><span class="none2">Phousita. </span><span class="none">How long have you known her?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“She wasn’t my accomplice. I didn’t know her at all, until then. The municipal police assaulted me! She helped me survive.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Helped you? By turning over to you an illegal Maker. How much did you pay her for that?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I didn’t pay her anything. I’m not part of anything. Neither is she.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You deny it?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Of course I deny it.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Yet you carry an illegal Maker. How do you explain that?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Have you ever been down there? It’s a sewer of illegal Makers. Why don’t your officers do anything about </span><span class="none2">that</span><span class="none">?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Why were </span><span class="none2">you </span><span class="none">named as an accomplice?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“How should I know? I don’t even know the person who was supposed to have—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Enough!” Kirstin said. She rose to her feet, her eyes flashing. “I was hoping you’d give me some reason to stay your execution. After all, you’re only a child.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor felt his heart trip. </span><span class="none2">“Execution…</span><span class="none">!” he whispered.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“The judiciary has already ruled against you. Your original body at the mausoleum on Summer House has already been destroyed.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You can’t—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“We have to, Sandor. The laws of the Commonwealth were not made lightly. And it is the duty of the police to enforce them with an absolute hand.”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin felt a trifle dejected as she left Sandor’s cell, the two police dogs at her heels. She’d had Sandor interrogated before he’d been returned to full awareness, but he’d revealed no more under the unconscious influence of drugs than he had under the conscious influence of fear. Whatever he might have known must have been lost when the municipal police destroyed his atrium. She liked her cases to close neatly. A confession would have quieted the protests from Summer House. And a confession might have led to bigger game in the corporate hierarchy.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A motion sensor followed her progress down the corridor, past other, unoccupied cells. After assessing her identity, it opened a second locked door, and let her through. A handler waited on the other side. He leashed the dogs and led them away, leaving her alone in the narrow passages of the detention facility. The musky scent of the animals clung to the air. For a moment, Kirstin wondered if Sandor might really be innocent of conspiracy. Not that it mattered.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Molecular law was not a system of justice, it was a system of enforcement. Personal innocence could not be a mitigating factor. The judiciary could only be concerned with personal </span><span class="none2">involvement. </span><span class="none">If an individual carried an illegal Maker, that individual must suffer the consequences, or the use of illegal Makers would spread beyond the ability of the police to control them. In this way, molecular law was analogous to natural law: shove someone over a tall cliff, and that individual, though personally innocent, would still die. There was no mercy in the application of the law of gravity. There could be no mercy in the application of Commonwealth law.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor Jiang-Tibayan was in possession of an illegal Maker derived from the Bohr Maker. The seriousness of this association alone had persuaded the magistrate to consider this as a potential capital case. When police attempts to eradicate the derivative Maker failed, the verdict of execution was assured. But at that point the case might have been considered only second-degree terminal: Sandor’s original physical copy at Summer House as well as his ghosts might have been spared if they could be shown to be free of a similar violation.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Enter the factor of willfulness: Sandor had been named by Van Ness as an accomplice. He’d escaped from the custody of the Sunda municipal police, thus avoiding arrest by the Commonwealth Police. And upon his escape he’d immediately appeared in the company of Phousita, the mule Van Ness had used to carry the Maker.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor’s protestations of innocence didn’t count for much against the roster of his actions. Besides, memories could be edited. Even if he couldn’t recall participating in a conspiracy, he obviously had. Willfulness elevated the case to a first-degree capital offense, in which all physical and electronic manifestations were forfeit.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin might have introduced some doubt by reporting Nikko’s confession at Summer House. But why confuse the issue? At that point, Nikko had known himself to be a condemned man, and he’d had nothing to lose by lying about his brother’s involvement. She’d thought it best to omit his testimony from her report.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	With no legally acceptable proof of Sandor’s innocence, the verdict was unavoidable: execution in entirety, with sterilization of all remains.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Alone in the corridor, Kirstin’s thoughts turned to Fox, and she smiled. Thirty-one years ago he’d mocked the law, using bribery and coercion to win the research permit that allowed Nikko’s existence. Kirstin had been making him pay for that victory ever since. This was one more installment on the debt. But not the last. Oh no. The score wasn’t even yet.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The termination chamber was another cozy gray room, equipped with soft white furnishings. Six chairs had been arranged in an arc for the audience. Three of them were already occupied by uniformed police officers, chatting idly as Sandor was led into the room. Kirstin Adair was one of them. She glanced at him, then leaned over to whisper with the other two officers.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The guard who escorted Sandor nudged his elbow, indicating that he should sit in a seventh chair, one that faced the others. He obeyed numbly, pulling himself down into the chair. The pain in his ribs was excruciating. He watched as his arms and legs were strapped into place. Then the medic came and inserted an IV into his forearm.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He closed his eyes, telling himself that this was only a dream. It could not be real. Very soon now he would wake up. But the fiery pain around his lungs belied that. Why hadn’t the medic given him something for the pain? Love and Nature. Love and Nature. They’d give him something soon enough.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He tried to slow his ragged breathing, knowing he’d feel better if he could manage it. But he was too scared to concentrate. His heart fluttered unevenly. He felt nauseous. </span><span class="none2">Wake up! </span><span class="none">he commanded himself. </span><span class="none2">Wake up!</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	He heard the chamber door slide open. He looked up, to see Marevic Chun dart into the room. Immediately, his hopes fixed on her. Lovely, fragile Marevic Chun. The president of Summer House at Earth. She knew the cops. She knew the system. She could get him out of this. She had to!</p><p class="calibre2"> 	She glided straight to Kirstin; touched the arm of Kirstin’s chair to stop her forward motion. “Chief Adair, you must delay this barbarous execution! Stop it at once, or I warn you, you’ll endanger your position. I have a magistrate considering this case. I’ve offered you copious notes derived from Nikko’s own files that <span class="none2">prove </span><span class="none">Sandor had no involvement in this case. You must reconsider.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin looked around irritably. “Marevic. Have you found a copy of Nikko’s ghost?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Marevic froze. Her dark eyes became obsidian.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin said: “A magistrate has already ruled that the notes which you claim belong to Nikko cannot be admitted as evidence. They are as likely to be forgeries as anything else. It’s too easy to blame a dead man. Unless you can produce a ghost to testify to the validity of your evidence, it can’t be considered.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“But a court </span><span class="none2">is </span><span class="none">considering it. And you have a moral duty to delay this execution so long as that court is still perusing the issue.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The Chief of Police gazed up, her expression annoyed. “The only issue in this case,” she said, “is whether or not the Board of Directors of Summer House—yourself included—had prior knowledge of this crime.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Marevic’s lips met in a thin, hard line. “We had no involvement.” She sat down in one of the empty seats. Her angry gaze fixed on Sandor. “I’m sorry,” she said in a calm, cold voice. “I’ve done everything I could.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	It took a moment before he realized she was addressing him. When he did, his whole body began to shake. Marevic was giving up! She was giving up. His breath surged in and out of his lungs. He felt himself straining against the straps. “You can’t say that!” he screamed at her. “I didn’t commit any crime.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“It’s all right,” Phousita said.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	His head snapped up as if it had been yanked in a noose. His wild gaze searched the room, but she was nowhere to be seen.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“It’s all right,” she said again. “I know how to carry you now.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He had no functioning atrium. </span><span class="none2">She </span><span class="none">had no atrium. She could not be with him.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">Phousita? </span><span class="none">he thought.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She didn’t respond. He tipped his head back and studied the ceiling. Odd, silent tears slipped out of his eyes. He thought of his walk through the airport terminal in Sunda, of the little girl with the begging bowl and of how much his life had changed. It seemed like magic.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita believed in magic. Where was she now?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A wave of dizziness swept across him and he sagged back against the chair. </span><span class="none2">“It’s all right,” </span><span class="none">Phousita whispered again. He smiled. He didn’t believe her, but it was good to hear her voice.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Someone tugged lightly on the IV line. His eyes fluttered open. He half expected to see Phousita. He blinked hard, struggling to focus his sight. But it was only the medic, adjusting the flow rate on the IV. “The pain is gone,” he told the medic. His words were slurred. She looked at him fearfully and backed away. He stared after her. Something </span><span class="none2">was </span><span class="none">wrong with him, he realized. The dizziness was getting worse. It filled his ears with a roar and a rush….</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	His head snapped up. He was awake again, alert. His gaze swept across the gallery. Kirstin was staring at him, a dark, suspicious frown on her face, as if he’d suddenly become something dangerous. Marevic looked scared, her small frame pressed into the seat as if she could hide herself there.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	One of the uniformed officers sitting with Kirstin cleared his throat impatiently. Kirstin glanced at him, then nodded. “Proceed,” she said.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor looked around. The medic had left the room. A stranger in surgical scrubs stood in her place. At Kirstin’s word, he plucked a syringe from a waiting tray. Calmly, methodically, he injected the contents into the tube feeding into Sandor’s arm.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor’s eyes widened. He stiffened reflexively as the poison rushed down the tube. His thoughts fled home. “I’m sorry, Fox,” he whispered.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He tried to keep awake, tried to count. One, two, three, four, f—</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita stood swaying, just inside the lock of the little ship. Nikko stood behind her, hardly breathing, his anxiety a drug exuded into the air to keep her alert.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita felt herself looking down upon towers, upon gardens. Her vision was as wide as the city. Somewhere, not far, her tiny servants steamed off Sandor like vapors off a volcanic vent. They returned to her in gusts:</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She saw him walking a narrow corridor, his hands shackled to his sides, police dogs at his heels. Every breath made fierce by pain.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She saw him seated, bound, terrified.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Knew his hope; his despair.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Then she was inside him.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She became an insect, no larger than a grain of dust. On her back, like a minute pearl nestled between her wings, she carried an empty world. She set the world down and began to pray, and soon a snake wound down to her from out of the firmament, a thread of story, twisted, knotted, turning back upon itself, mile after mile of it coiling down toward her. She scuttled aside and watched the head of the snake fall into the basket of her world. The threadlike body followed, settling in neat coils. She guided it with her insect feet and watched her world fill with days, with years. More. With life. Down, down, down the thread of the snake came, until she began to fear it would be too much, more than she could carry. Then the last link of the snake collapsed into her globe and it was full. She looked up anxiously, but the sky overhead was empty. So she rubbed her papery wings together and swallowed the world. Then she rose into the sky and flew home.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita turned to Nikko. She felt as numb and cold and sterile as the air that nurtured this city. Whoever had started the rumor that Heaven could be found at the end of the Highway had been a fool. She looked into Arif’s fearful eyes, still waiting for a sense of joy, a feeling of triumph to envelop her. It didn’t come. Perhaps she was too tired to feel anything.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Sandor’s with me now,” she said to the ghost that parasitized Arif. “We can go.”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p></div></div></div></div></body></html>
