<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta name="generator" content="http://calibre-ebook.com"/>
    <title>Linda Nagata - Nanotech Succession 01</title>
    <meta name="author" content="The Bohr Maker"/>
    <meta name="creation-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta name="revision-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre1">
<div class="calibre1"><div class="s2"><h2 class="calibre4" id="calibre_pb_21">   <span class="none3">CHAPTER</span></h2><h2 class="calibre5"></h2></div><div class="calibre1"><div class="s3"><h3 class="calibre6"> <span class="none3">21</span></h3><h3 class="calibre6"></h3></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> </span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Ghosts could claim no freedom. While Summer House developed his physical clone, Nikko could do little except tag along with Fox. It was an awkward situation. They’d never been able to put up with each other’s company for long. But they both tried hard to ignore the history between them while Fox went about designing the craft that would rendezvous with Phousita’s ship. Nikko looked over his shoulder, and offered suggestions when he could. His ghost still imitated the tremors that had afflicted his now-vanished body, reminding him of why he’d gone after the Bohr Maker in the first place.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Shortly before the scheduled departure they took the elevator up through the core of the tether to the central docking ring. The local police captain was there. But he worked for Fox now, assigned to clear the area of any police Makers.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	With Fox, Nikko examined the little ship. It was a jury-rigged vessel, composed of three coffins from the mausoleum, set end to end and attached to a fusion motor that Nikko would control through his atrium. Smart glue knit the molecular structures of each piece to the next. The craft would be secured with a temporary bond to the side of a robotic cargo vessel that had been held back in port for a day. It would remain coupled to the cargo ship for the taxi out to the magnetic launch tube and the subsequent burst of acceleration. After that, the bonding agent would wither, and Nikko would be on his own.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	It was a dizzying sensation to see his inert body being loaded into the lead coffin. He watched as a pink-tinged, semitransparent acceleration gel was hosed in on all sides. A quick system check followed, confirming that all was well. Then the lid was closed and sealed.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox said: “I’m still working on the Maker that was used to sabotage your atrium.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko had almost forgotten about that; it seemed so long ago. “You haven’t cracked it?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“It was elusive. Very sophisticated. Self-protective. The original sample is long gone, of course. I’m trying to deduce its structure from environmental clues.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	One of the workers approached Fox. “We’re done here. Time for Nikko to download—if he still wants to go.” Only a handful of Fox’s assistants were aware of Nikko’s return. They seemed ambivalent about the situation—exhibiting an underlying resentment because they’d compromised themselves with the police, but at the same time enjoying their act of defiance. That was Summer House: strong on revolutionary talk, uneasy with action.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Tell him I won’t be backing out,” Nikko said. “Tell him, if he’s getting nervous, he can always reformat his memories and forget I ever happened.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox smiled uncomfortably. “Take care, Nikko.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Sure, Dad.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Was that all they could find to say? The tension between them weighed in multiple G’s, but it was too late to change that now. Nikko wrote himself to his home address.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	There was a moment of blankness, and then a growing, vague awareness of the cramped feel of his body, the slow breath in and out of his lungs, the claustrophobic press of the acceleration gel that stole any possible movement from his limbs.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He remembered his last living moments on Summer House, when Kirstin had come to visit him. He remembered his weeks with Phousita. So the ghost had already assimilated. He must have been unconscious for a while. But peering out the transparent cover of the coffin, he could still see the lights of the loading bay.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	His heart began to beat faster. He’d never ventured beyond the outer walls of Summer House. He knew absolutely nothing about boarding a reluctant ship.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox rapped on the transparent lid. </span><span class="none2">Okay? </span><span class="none">his silent lips asked. Nikko nodded. From this point on there would be no radio communication.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	As if to enforce his isolation, his kisheer responded to the declining level of 0</span><sub class="calibre7"><span class="none">2</span></sub><span class="none"> in the coffin by sliding past the restrictive gel to fuse with the papillae of his mouth, nose, and ears. No more atmosphere for him. He would breathe through the kisheer until he reached the target ship, or until he died.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox withdrew. The coffin shook as a tractor engaged. A pump hummed, then gradually faded into silence. A gentle nudge of acceleration from the tractor sent the ship drifting out of the bay. After a few minutes it engaged with a clang to the robotic cargo vessel that would carry it piggyback through the launch.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	It took nearly two hours to taxi out to the magnetic launch tube. That was a long time to be awake, and unmoving. A long time to think about what he was doing.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The acceleration came without warning. Nikko wasn’t even aware the two ships had entered the launch tube when suddenly his brain slammed against his skull. A huge weight crushed his heart. His lungs were a joke. He blacked out.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	When he came to, the coffin lid was fogged. The acceleration gel had been absorbed by the coffin’s maintenance system and he was free to move in the cramped space. He raised his arm and wiped at the transparent lid. He saw stars beyond. In the coffin it was very dark. He checked his atrium clock. Four hours had passed since he’d left Summer House. He had a headache.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He ordered the coffin to open. It depressurized, then the lid popped free. He felt cold for a moment, then the feeling was gone. He climbed carefully out.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	His hands were already shaking badly under the influence of his advancing palsy. Fox had given him a Maker to correct the disability, but it hadn’t done a thing yet. He found it a challenge to grip the handholds.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fortunately, he’d been fitted with a shoulder harness and tether before leaving Summer House. It kept him secured to the little vessel as he clambered back to the next coffin. He opened the lid, then pulled out the camera pack he’d ordered stashed there. He slipped it on, then drifted out on the tether’s slack. The camera hovered on its tentacle, recording an image of the little vessel.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	While on Summer House, Fox had helped him recover the data from the camera pack he’d used before his “death.” When he combined that with the data stored in the camera pack aboard Phousita’s vessel, he’d have a continuous history of events surrounding the Bohr Maker’s liberation.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“That’s my ship,” he said, continuing his documentary. He subvocalized the words. The atrium translated them and sent them on to the camera. “Absurd-looking, isn’t it? But functional, I hope.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He went on to describe how it had been designed and assembled. Eventually, the radiation from the sun began to upset his thermoregulatory system, so he pulled himself in on the rope and sought refuge in the shade of the lead coffin, as far from the engine as he could get. He was concerned about radiation. Fox had insisted it was safe enough, and he had Makers to repair any damage. Still, he didn’t like being close to the engine.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He was hungry. He popped the lid off the coffin and withdrew a long tube. He wrapped his toes around a handy grip, then struggled with his palsy until finally he was able to stick the end of the tube into a socket Fox had fixed in his forearm. Nutrients began to flow directly into his bloodstream. His mood improved briefly, though he was hungrier than ever when he removed the tube. His belly did not appreciate being cut out of the feeding cycle.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He began to record:</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“The emptiness and silence of the void are beginning to weigh on me. I feel utterly alone, with Summer House unimaginably far behind.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	His words opened a cavern of emotion. Suddenly, he felt every kilometer of separation like a minute in time, hard and real, but impossible to cross again once he’d gone by.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But gradually his perspective changed. “As the hours pass I find myself growing used to the isolation. It begins to seem less threatening, more beneficent. I understand now why Fox insisted this ship be as small as possible. Because I am tiny, I’m almost invisible in the vast empty reaches that surround me. I’m so far from anywhere that it’s unlikely anyone will notice me, even when the fusion engines finally fire on schedule. Some astronomical instrument may record my presence. But will any human eye ever review that record?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He checked the time. Not long now.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He was just about to return to the coffin and prepare for the next leg of acceleration when a ghost came to him.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">“You again!” </span><span class="none">Nikko hissed, as he recognized the odd little gentleman who’d sabotaged his atrium so many weeks ago.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	His visitor sat cross-legged on nothing, his lithe figure floating in vacuum about a meter off Nikko’s right shoulder. His blond hair waved as if he were underwater; he wore no vacuum suit. “Success,” he said. “My assault Makers were replicated along with your body. I guess Fox didn’t notice that.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“What do you want from me?” Nikko demanded.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The man’s lower lip swelled in an angry pout. “I wanted you to stay away from the Maker!” he said. “I warned you weeks ago, but you wouldn’t listen. Oh, you’re good. But now you’ve forced me to move against you. I’m sorry for what I have to do to you. Slave atriums repulse me. But </span><span class="none2">you </span><span class="none">should understand their occasional necessity, better than most. I can’t change the course of this silly ship you’re on. But I </span><span class="none2">can </span><span class="none">control you. I can prevent you from taking on any passengers.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko stared at the little gentleman, feeling brutally, utterly terrified. The kisheer reflected his emotion. It swelled up in his throat until he thought he would choke. “Slave atrium? But you can’t—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I’m sorry. I really am. But you’ve left me no choice. My assault Makers are modifying your atrium now.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“But you don’t understand what’s going on!” Nikko protested, the atrium working an interesting croak of panic into his voice.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Oh I’m sorry. But you’re wrong. I do understand. Phousita’s aboard that ship, and she has my Maker.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Your Maker?” Nikko blinked in astonishment. Was this little man really… ?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Phousita has to stay aboard that ship! So the police can recover her. Kirstin’s finally figured out how you got the Maker out of Castle, you know. Marevic gave her the ship’s control code, or most of it, anyway—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Kirstin?” Nikko echoed dumbly. “Marevic?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Your scheme’s falling apart,” Bohr said. “It was a valiant effort, though.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	So Marevic had been arrested. She was probably dead by now. And Kirstin …</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Kirstin will have Phousita executed,” Nikko said, wondering what it would take to elicit sympathy from this ghost. “Do you know Phousita? Have you met her? There’s no harm in her. She doesn’t deserve to die.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The ghost looked suddenly uncomfortable. “Nature can be so unkind,” he admitted. “But it has to happen. She’s told me she will share the Maker with anyone who wants it. I can’t let that happen.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Why not?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Bohr seemed to curl into himself like a spider that had been knocked from its web. “Look at yourself,” he mumbled, his eyes averted as if he were embarrassed to speak of these things. “I don’t have anything against you personally, understand. But you’re not a child of the Goddess. You don’t belong to the Earth. You’re not a part of the continuity of life that is unique to our Mother. What’s to stop the development of more like you if my Maker is widespread? The lineage of the Goddess will be broken. The natural continuum shattered.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“That’s crazy!” Nikko hissed. “Nature is blind and deaf and dumb, a reactive machine, no more. It doesn’t matter if we change it! It’s a good thing. Look at Summer House. The technology that made Summer House can fill the void with life. That can’t be bad.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Bohr’s chin came up in a little boy’s stubborn gesture. “What’s crazy,” he said, “is our presumption that </span><span class="none2">we </span><span class="none">have the vision to be the guiding hands of evolution.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“But—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I’m sorry,” the ghost interrupted.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“But my brother’s pattern is on that ship. If the police recover it—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I’m sorry,” the ghost repeated. He seemed truly apologetic. “This whole affair has become so ugly.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko’s kisheer fluttered across his face. He struggled to calm it. “But Phousita will die if—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Phousita made her choice—What’s this? What’s this? Oh, damnation! Your dad’s got a new Maker in you. It’s attacking the atrium. Smart move. That’ll get rid of me, won’t it? More effective than attacking me direct.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The ghost was gone.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">What for the love of Nature?</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	Nikko stiffened. He’d meant to speak the words. But they were a thought, no more. His voice was gone. He ordered a check on his atrium, but his command went unacknowledged. He tried to access his atrium notebook. He tried to get a reading on the time. The atrium didn’t respond. He felt suddenly <span class="none2">dizzy. </span><span class="none">Pain flared through his skull. What had Fox done to him? He pressed his head against the deep cold of the coffin, trying to hold on to consciousness.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox had destroyed his atrium.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox had saved him from slavery.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox had stranded him in the void, because without a functioning atrium, he had no way to signal this absurd little ship to begin the voyage home.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He blacked out. When he came to, he found himself in the coffin. He didn’t remember climbing in. But the engine had kicked on, so it was good that he’d managed it. He tested the atrium. No result. He drew nutrients from the coffin and mulled his problems and grew hungrier, until he could think of little else but his hunger. If the atrium were working, he could suppress that physiological reaction….</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The atrium was gone.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He didn’t climb out of the coffin again. He felt weak, and vaguely dizzy. The shaking in his hands was beginning to be replicated in his toes. There was nothing he could do about it. There was nothing he could do about anything. He couldn’t even dictate to the camera.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	His was a miserable existence. Yet it could have been worse. Fox had looked to his bodily functions. He didn’t have to defecate because he had no food in his intestinal tract. He didn’t have to urinate, because his genital organ recycled his urine, while the excess fluids and toxic excretions were sweated off in a thin film of ice.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	After a day the engine slowed. The steering mechanism turned the vessel about. Deceleration. Nikko was a piece of baggage, badly packed. Another day passed. The engine cut off for the last time, and Nikko blacked out, a victim of exhaustion.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He woke up only when his little vessel banged against the target ship. The hull of the coffin immediately fused with the hull of Phousita’s ship. The glue would hold until he sprayed the bond with a little can of propellent stashed in the middle coffin.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Clumsily, he reached up to his chest panel to activate the camera. The gesture sent waves of cramps through his hands. His numb fingers were yanked into sudden, excruciating circles. Slowly, he exercised them, opening and closing his hands. At first his long fingers tangled with each other, but after ten or twelve repetitions, they began to remember what they were for. With the camera on, he opened the coffin lid, then climbed out, craning his neck to get a look at the ship that had carried his ghost out of Castle.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	It was a squat, ugly cylinder, just large enough to contain three decks. The engines were working to produce a comfortable deceleration. Recessed sensory equipment studded the hull, but there were no windows. Nikko pulled out some slack on his tether and clambered around the hull, using handy grips installed for the benefit of maintenance personnel. He found the air lock. The outer door was closed. Access was controlled by a numerical keypad affixed to the hull, minimum security for a vessel that would dock in crowded inner cities. He’d recorded the access code in his atrium notebook—but of course the notebook had been destroyed along with his atrium.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He punched experimentally at the keypad, but it rejected his attempts. He wondered if there was a doorbell. In the end, he decided to knock.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita sat huddled in the living room of the little ship. A soap opera was playing, but the volume was turned down. Arif was asleep on the floor. She watched him, his handsome face so calm in sleep. What to do? What to do?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She still waited for her ghost to return from the evil sorcerer. It had been almost three days now. She’d begun to wonder if it had been lost. Perhaps it would never return.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	What to do?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She’d thought it wise—for the time being, until she knew more—to obey the evil sorcerer. So she’d reneged on her offer to share the Maker’s talents with Arif. He’d flown into a rage. He’d hit her again. But that was the last time. She made a spell that would send him to sleep any time he moved against her—an absurd solution that did nothing to heal the deep wounds inside him. The Maker could do that. She wanted to share it with him. But she was afraid of the evil sorcerer and so she waited for the return of her ghost.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A dull, distant banging intruded upon her consciousness. Her chin lifted as she listened to a barely audible pounding that seemed to roll up from the deck. She tested the air, but sensed no change aboard the ship. Arif stirred restlessly in his sleep. The pounding continued in a slowly varying rhythm. It seemed to come from the lock, from the door. She swallowed hard as an unreasonable fear gripped her. There was </span><span class="none2">nothing</span><span class="none"> on the other side of the door. There would be nothing, until the ship docked at Summer House.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The pounding went on.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She got slowly to her feet and walked to the lock. The door itself was only a colored outline. Its material had bonded with the inner hull of the ship. Using the terms of address Nikko had taught her, she asked it politely if it would open. The outline faded away. A thin crack appeared in the gray surface. Several seconds passed as the crack deepened, then the door slid aside, out of sight.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	When Phousita had boarded the ship at Castle, there had been a short passage between double doors. Now the passage was filled with a curious, semitransparent wall. She reached out to touch it. It was cool to her hand but not cold, and it yielded to her touch, like soft flesh. She could see the hazy points of stars through its mass. So the outer door must be open too. She pushed harder and her hand sank into it. It was very broad, more than the length of her arm, but if she leaned forward, perhaps she could reach all the way outside….</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A bitterly cold hand grasped her arm from outside and shoved her back into the ship. She screamed in surprise and stumbled backward. A moment later she saw Nikko pulling himself through the membranous wall on a succession of handgrips. Despite all the weeks she’d spent with his ghost, she’d never actually seen him herself. But she recognized him from Sandor’s memories. He slipped out of the gel, the familiar eye-tentacle of a camera pack hovering over his shoulder.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	His own eyes were occluded behind dark lenses. But the lenses cleared rapidly and in a few seconds she could see the blue of his true eyes. He towered over her, his tall blue body like a china sculpture. Beads of water condensed on him from out of the air. The living kerchief that covered his mouth, nose, and ears shivered, then unfurled until it lay like a mantle across his shoulders. The alien profile of his scent set her trembling.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He looked past her.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She followed his gaze, to see Arif crouched on the floor. Quickly she turned back to Nikko and laid a hand on his arm. His smooth skin was icy cold. She could feel the muscles quivering under her palm. His fingers were in constant, erratic motion. “Please don’t kill him, Brother Nikko,” she whispered.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I don’t need you to defend me!” Arif shouted. He rose to his feet, his body flexed, ready. She sensed then that he would not be unhappy to die.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko’s contempt was a bitter perfume on the air. But he showed no interest in fighting. He shrugged, and a wave of shimmering blue ran from his shoulders to his knees. “The police have taken control of this ship,” he said. “It’s not going to Summer House anymore. It’ll probably be brought back to Castle. If you want to dodge the cops, you’ll have to come with me.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita frowned at the gel membrane. She could sense no duplicity from Nikko. Still … “How can we leave?” she asked. “Outside there’s nothing. It’s death.” She looked at him in surprise. “You have a ship?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You could call it that. It’ll get us back to Summer House, anyway. You still have Sandor?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She looked down in sudden shame. She hadn’t been back to visit Sandor since Nikko had gone. She’d been too mortified to face him. But Nikko wasn’t gone. He was here. Alive and whole.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Phousita?” His voice was worried now, riven with a hint of anger. “You still have Sandor’s pattern, don’t you?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Of course,” she whispered.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“And you’ll come with me?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She gazed up at him again. She could feel tears standing in her eyes. Her chest was filled with a great sadness. “I want to go home, Brother Nikko. Can you help me go home?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The taste of his regret flooded her senses. “I don’t know if you can ever go home again,” he said. “It depends on you, and how well you can hide from the cops.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She nodded her understanding. “The cops haven’t called on me yet. But I have had another visitor. The evil sorcerer sent a ghost to me.” She felt his alarm, and nodded again. “He gave me his address, Brother Nikko, and he told me to visit him. I sent a spirit there, but it hasn’t come back.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The chill in Nikko’s voice made her shiver. “Did he give you his name, Phousita?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“He said it was Leander Bohr.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko hissed his anger. “And do you still have his address?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Yes, Brother Nikko.” She shared that with him, while the camera looked on.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Then abruptly the scent of Nikko’s mood seemed to change: anger leavened with something like shame. He turned to Arif. “I need your help,” he said.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif stiffened. His face went hard, locked down in a stubborn expression that Phousita knew too well.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko seemed to sense it too. His kisheer went still across his shoulders. His reluctance clouded the air. “My atrium’s been destroyed,” he said. “I have no way to initiate the autopilot aboard my ship. But you can do it.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You need to get inside my atrium again?” Arif growled.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“No. I need you to command my ship.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif was silent for a moment. And then a grin slowly spread across his face.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko retrieved two pressure suits from a locker in one of the bedrooms. He shook them out, revealing two long white coveralls, much too big for either Phousita or Arif. “You’ll have to remove your clothes before you put this on,” he said.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita nodded and began to strip. After a brief hesitation, Arif followed her example and soon they were dressed in the baggy garments. Phousita looked down at herself.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The suit covered her body from toes to neck. Even her hands were hidden inside baggy gloves at the ends of long sleeves. She found the sense of enclosure deeply disturbing. Her senses seemed to shrivel beneath the dense cloth. Then Nikko touched a panel on the breast of the suit, and it began to shrink. She gasped a little. “Don’t worry,” Nikko said. The suit pulled tight. Within seconds, it had achieved a snug fit.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita held herself stiffly, repulsed by the garment. She felt violated, as if she’d taken on someone else’s skin. Her heart fluttered in her chest. She sent servants to investigate this disturbing cloth, but they quickly returned to her, unable to penetrate it without damaging it. Arif watched the process warily, then repeated the gesture with his own suit.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“This is your helmet,” Nikko said. He handed a globe to her. It was solid white plastic on one side; the other side was transparent plastic. “Goes over your head.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Her heart thudded in dull fear. The helmet would complete her enclosure, and cut her off from the world. She watched Arif place his own helmet over his head. Nikko locked it down and turned to her. She swallowed her fear. She could not go back and she could not stay here. A path had been laid out for her, and she must follow it. She slipped the helmet over her head. Nikko locked it with his clumsy, trembling hand. A hiss of air, a sudden change in pressure. Then silence.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She drew a deep breath to calm herself. The air tasted slightly different from that of the ship. She thought of all the tiny servants that still roved the room. She couldn’t recover them now. Nikko beckoned with a long, curling finger.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Let’s go.” Arif’s voice growled in her ears, both ears at once, as if he stood on two sides of her, his lips but a breath away.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He took her arm and steered her toward the gel membrane, eager to be off. Nikko had taught him to speak to the new ship with his atrium. He would command it. He seemed to have drawn new life from that simple role.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko spent a few seconds fussing over his old camera pack, then he shrugged his kisheer up over his face, and backed into the membrane. It closed around him as he slipped outside. Arif went next. Phousita watched him closely, then she reached into the membrane, caught a handgrip, and pulled herself through. Outside, the suit seemed to stiffen slightly. It squeezed her body ever so gently.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko had waited for her. He showed her how to climb using the handgrips. He hovered close beside her as they clambered across the hull to his tiny ship. He helped her lie down in the coffin. Then he closed the lid.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p></div></div></div></div></body></html>
