<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta name="generator" content="http://calibre-ebook.com"/>
    <title>Linda Nagata - Nanotech Succession 01</title>
    <meta name="author" content="The Bohr Maker"/>
    <meta name="creation-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta name="revision-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre1">
<div class="calibre1"><div class="s2"><h2 class="calibre4" id="calibre_pb_18">   <span class="none3">CHAPTER</span></h2><h2 class="calibre5"></h2></div><div class="calibre1"><div class="s3"><h3 class="calibre6"> <span class="none3">18</span></h3><h3 class="calibre6"></h3></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> </span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko awoke with a start. How could he have been sleeping? It wasn’t possible. Even when Arif’s body subsided toward sleep, his own consciousness would continue. He was an electronic program, a ghost. He was not Arif. And yet he’d been sleeping.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He sat up. He found himself on a plush pallet, on the floor of one of the ship’s two cabins. The walls were tuned to a mock-up of the forested interior of Summer House in simulated moonlight; soft insect sounds rolled out of the air. The bedding was crumpled, and it stank, as if he’d inhabited it for days.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita stood in the door, watching him. She was dressed in new clothes: a gold breastcloth, and a white sarong stitched with flowers of red and gold. Her hair hung down her back in a long, black cascade. Nikko felt his fist clench. “What did you do to me?” he growled.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I’m sorry,” she said. “But I had to. You’re killing Arif. Can’t you feel what you’re doing to him? You’re violating him. He can’t stand it. He can’t.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“So you made him sleep? You made me sleep too? How’d you do that?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I wove a dream for you, and fed it to the atrium.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You synthesized the sensory input? For how long? How long, Phousita? I don’t even remember leaving Castle!”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Three days,” she said. “We’re far from Castle now. We’re safe. You have to let Arif go.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	His bladder felt ready to burst. He staggered to the head and relieved himself. Arif’s body still seemed awkward to him: too short, too tightly muscled. But very strong. Strong enough to put his fist through the wall. He resisted the impulse. Instead, he pulled on a pair of shorts, then dug the camera pack out of his briefcase and strapped it on.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	As an historian, he was very conscious of the political shock waves the theft of the Bohr Maker might generate. At minimum, the historical record he was compiling would demonstrate to every citizen what a gauzy thing police “security” must always be. Beyond that, anything was possible. In a world where police Makers were no longer supreme, what law could be enforced? He could envision the Commonwealth crumbling around him, an outmoded fortress to be ripped apart molecule by molecule, opening the way to a new and unpredictable torrent of social change.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He touched the small control pad on his chest strap. The camera lens reared up on its tentacle, then the Dull Intelligence guided it around to focus on his face. He gazed at the glassy eye, then began to dictate.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Phousita tells me I’ve been asleep for three days. If that’s so, then I’ve commanded Arif’s body six days.” He hesitated at that statistic. For six days he’d kept the slave atrium in command mode. Without respite. Never letting Arif assert his own will. Actually denying him existence.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Six days.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Love and Nature,” he whispered. “I would never have done that to the animals on Summer House.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The camera stared blankly. His gaze cut away. He glanced at the cabin door, then wandered out to the living room in search of Phousita.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She emerged from the kitchen, carrying a tray that held a huge, steaming platter. A sweet, spicy odor filled the room. Nikko suddenly realized this body was very hungry. But Phousita had already known that. He felt a sudden flash of anger at the way she’d anticipated him.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She set the platter on a low table. “The ship’s kitchen has made food for you. Come eat. You must care for Arif’s body.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I had no choice, you know,” he told her defiantly. “It was the only way I could get you out of the Spill.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She glanced at him, her gaze softly chiding. Even Phousita knew that it was possible to ride an animal without being in command mode; that it was possible to occupy an atrium only as an observer. “Please eat.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He glared at her, stubborn as a child, refusing what he really wanted. “What happened to Sandor?” he demanded.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“He’s with me.” She knelt beside the table, across from the platter of food. Her hands lay palm up in her lap, one nested in the other. The tiny glands shone like drops of water.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“What do you mean he’s with you? Did they execute him?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Yes. But I contain him, like a seed.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“His pattern?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She nodded. “There is a way to reduce the information of a man into a long, knotted string.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Condensed data. Can you really do that?” </span><span class="none2">Could one tiny cell contain all the information necessary to construct a human being? </span><span class="none">That was the myth he lived by. He swallowed hard. “Can you restore him?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I don’t know yet.” Her gaze shifted minutely, as if he’d touched a sore point. “Come eat. You must care for Arif’s body.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">Arif’s </span><span class="none">body. She wouldn’t let him forget it.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He sat down on the carpet. She’d brought him diced white meat laden with oils and spices, served in a papaya shell, with fruits all around. He picked up the chopsticks and began eating.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The flavor seemed to explode in his mouth: luscious fats; protein-laden meat. As he ate he watched Phousita. She sat beside him, her eyes demurely downcast. But she would glance at him occasionally from under her long lashes, with an inquiring look, as if to ask </span><span class="none2">Was the food good? Was everything all right?</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	He’d come to know her on the long ride up the elevator. She was a precious thing. So sweet. So pretty. Yet she made him nervous. He was afraid of her.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Not because she held the talents of Bohr’s Maker in her hands—though he might have to reevaluate his attitude there. She’d just shown him she could be a tyrant like any other individual, sending him into sleep for three days to teach him what it was like to be <span class="none2">controlled.</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	Or had she only sought relief for Arif? The solace of sleep. Kindness glistened like water in her hands.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Yet he feared her. Because despite her pliable, inoffensive nature, she still held him to account for what he was doing to Arif.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	He took another bite of chicken, but it didn’t taste so good anymore.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	The situation couldn’t be helped, he told himself. It was him or Arif. He had nowhere else to go. If he tried to move through the net, Kirstin’s filters would trap him.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	But Phousita was there with him, her sympathetic gaze grazing him like a soft ray of solar radiation, which felt warm and good in the moment, but would inevitably develop into a burn.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	He laid the chopsticks down on the table. His belly felt mildly nauseous.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	<span class="none2">“Tuan?” </span><span class="none">Phousita asked in concern.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He stared at his hands. </span><span class="none2">Arif’s </span><span class="none">hands. To be helpless was a horrible fate.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Too much of my life I’ve used people,” he told her. “It’s an old habit. I excused myself on the grounds that I was a dying man. I had to do what was necessary to survive, you see?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She only gazed at him. She didn’t even nod. But he knew she understood. She understood everything. She told him: “I’m making a home for you, </span><span class="none2">tuan. </span><span class="none">Here in my head. You’ll be able to be yourself there.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He nodded. She’d told him this before. She’d started a Commonwealth atrium growing in her head. He would inhabit it, and he would feel real. But he would not </span><span class="none2">be </span><span class="none">real. He was dead. “How long until it’s ready?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Her gaze slid away guiltily. “Several more days, I think.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Arif won’t be able to survive me that long, will he?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“He will, Ghost-Nikko. If you let him go.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif was being slowly crushed out of existence by Nikko’s dominating presence. Even if he survived, he would not be sane after such a long time as a prisoner in his own body.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko let a shaky breath slide out of his lungs. </span><span class="none2">Arif’s </span><span class="none">lungs. “All right,” he said. “I’ll let him go.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He instructed the atrium to disengage command mode. Control slid away from him. It was a peculiar sensation. He’d half expected to feel divorced from his body, but no. Its physical presence continued unchanged. He felt everything as he had before. The input remained just the same. But he could no longer output his own will to the apparatus of this body. It no longer reflected his emotions. He could not speak or blink or scratch. It was a terrifying sensation.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He almost seized command mode back again. But he refrained. Arif had felt this way for days. </span><span class="none2">For days. </span><span class="none">Love and Nature.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Disorder seemed to sweep across him as he thought about it. So many days. How could he have done this to any man?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The body began to stir. Its heart began to race. All the muscles seemed to tense at once and then Arif screamed: a long, long roar of agony. Love and Nature.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Abruptly, he lunged at Phousita. He grabbed her by the hair, struck her viciously across the face, berating her savagely in a language Nikko did not understand.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko plunged back into command mode. The body froze, its lungs heaving in exertion. “Listen to me!” Nikko bellowed, knowing that Arif would hear and understand him. “I am still here. I have not gone away.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I am haunting you.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Move against Phousita like that and I will enslave you again. And I will never let you go. Never.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita stared up at him from the floor, wide-eyed, a bruise darkening her cheek. “Please let him go, Ghost-Nikko.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I won’t let him hurt you.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She nodded. “Just please let him go.”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Despair was difficult to avoid. Nikko felt himself caught in a nebulous existence. He had no way to interact with the world. He was chained to Arif, yes. The slave atrium forced him to experience every move Arif made, every breath, every itch, every time he took a shit. Everything. Unremittingly.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But he couldn’t manifest as a fully realized ghost—the stunted slave atrium didn’t allow for that.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He couldn’t divorce himself from Arif’s senses—the atrium wouldn’t permit that either.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He could not sleep—not even when Arif slept. Those were the worst times. He could see nothing then. Behind Arif’s closed eyes the world was endlessly dark. All he could do was listen to Arif breathe, until the slow, drawing, hesitating grumble of air in and out of lungs he could not command threatened to drive him from the atrium.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But he couldn’t leave the atrium. There was no place to go but into the net, and that would be deadly. All the data Gates would be set to filter his pattern. Kirstin would pluck him out of the lightspeed transfer of data and erase him. Or worse, hold him in a prisoner plexus, jacketed by a program that would not let him write his own destination.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	So he was trapped in a hyperconscious hell.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif was alone in the living room. Phousita had gone into the bathroom to shower. They’d been in the ship two weeks. Arif was much calmer now, calculating. He lounged on the carpet, his gaze locked on the smooth ceiling. Nikko experienced with him the sensations of his body. It was changing. Phousita must have touched him, because the livid yellow glow of his clown face had faded. His cheeks weren’t so prominent. His huge, hooked nose had begun to recede. Nikko was aware of all this. But he had no access to Arif’s thoughts.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Can you hear me?” Arif said, in a gruff, unforgiving voice.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita was out of the room.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Can you hear me, Ghost-Nikko? When my first master sent ghosts to enslave me, they would talk to me sometimes. Can you?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko thought about it. After ceding control of this body he’d felt helpless. But the slave atrium must have functioned, at least in part, as a voyeur’s habitat. It would make sense to have equipped it with at least this level of communication. He explored the system, and shortly, found a voice link.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">Like this? </span><span class="none">he asked.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“That’s right,” Arif said. “I can hear you.” He chuckled darkly. “Do you like this body?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko felt repulsed by the question. </span><span class="none2">Not much, </span><span class="none">he growled.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“No? My master’s clients paid a lot to experience this body. But then, they were always fascinated with freaks.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">You’re beginning to heal, </span><span class="none">Nikko pointed out, in an effort to be friendly.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif overlooked it. “You being a freak yourself,” he said, “maybe it’s not so interesting to you.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko’s patience was never more than a veneer. </span><span class="none2">What do you want, Arif?</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	“You owe me. I got you out of the Spill.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	<span class="none2">Ha. I got you out.</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Then <span class="none2">you </span><span class="none">are my new master.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The accusation stung with truth. Nikko denied it anyway. </span><span class="none2">No!</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	“I am not your slave?”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	<span class="none2">Of course not. </span><span class="none">He found the direction of this conversation excruciating. He didn’t want to think about where he was or what he had done to Arif. What he was still doing. Love and Nature. To be haunted by an unwanted ghost, to have your every action, your every move surveilled by someone you </span><span class="none2">loathed. </span><span class="none">It was intolerable.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif chuckled. “You need me to survive, don’t you, Ghost-Nikko?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Grudgingly, he admitted it. </span><span class="none2">Yes.</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Then you owe me.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	In the equation of their relationship, Nikko knew he did owe something. <span class="none2">What do you want from me?</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Teach me about your world. I want to know everything you know.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Nikko reacted with open surprise. <span class="none2">Do you?</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Of course, Ghost-Nikko. Even with such a fine master as you, I don’t enjoy being a slave.”</p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	They started with the ship’s systems. Nikko withheld the command codes that would permit a change to be entered into the ship’s navigation system. But he taught Arif how to use the console to access the Commonwealth net. </span><span class="none2">If you had a legal atrium, you wouldn’t need the console, </span><span class="none">Nikko told him.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Then I could throw you out, couldn’t I?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">I’ll go as soon as Phousita’s ready to take me.</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Think of another plan, Ghost-man,” Arif warned. “She’s not for you. I won’t have you fuckin’ her in dreamland.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Anger was a difficult emotion to maintain without the physical expression of a body. But Nikko managed it anyway. <span class="none2">You’re the slave, Arif. Not me. I’ll leave you whenever I please.</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Not for Phousita. You won’t be curling up inside of her while I’m alive.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	<span class="none2">Think you can stop it? You’re not her master.</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	“You say that? You don’t know her at all.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	It went on like that a lot. They were two rats gnawing at each other in an empty cage. It was horrible.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	But it was better than the helpless isolation he might have had. And by teaching Arif, he bought himself access to the data net.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	After the Congressional hearing, news of the Bohr Maker’s escape had gone public. It had become a favorite subject of talk shows. People claimed they were frightened, but most grinned when they said it, as if they were caught up in the giddy hysteria of an interactive horror flick and not dealing with reality at all. Maybe life in the Commonwealth was too secure.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Phousita sat with Arif, watching the shows in her quiet, patient way. She seemed tired most of the time. She didn’t say much, and she wouldn’t let Arif move on her in a sexual way—much to Nikko’s relief.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Days passed, and they drew nearer to Summer House. Arif began to look like a real man. As the goon’s mask faded, his true face emerged: a smooth, powerful visage, bisected by the harsh ridge of his nose, shadowed by heavy brows. A sparse black beard sprouted on his chin. Nikko convinced him to record the slow transition on the camera pack.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Phousita was changing too. Day by day she grew taller. Already her head reached Arif’s chest. Kirstin, Nikko thought, would be pleased at this surfeit of normalcy.</p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	They were four days out of Summer House when Phousita made her announcement. She and Arif had just finished dinner. Now they were lounging on the soft carpets, watching an Asian medieval drama that was playing on the net. Arif had his head pillowed in her lap. She looked down at him, and spoke suddenly, without preamble. “My atrium is ready. I can take Ghost-Nikko from you now.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif looked up at her. Nikko could feel the sudden tension in his body. “No.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	One word. Phousita’s lips started to tremble.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif raised his head. His hard fingers pressed against her throat. “If you say the address, I’ll tear your tongue out,” he warned her. “Nikko is not going to have you.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“But it’s best, Arif. It’s torture for him to be with you. He has no body. But he’ll be able to feel real if he’s with me.” She moved her hands toward his face. The glands on her hands glistened in the low light.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif sprang away from her with feral speed. “Don’t touch me with your spells,” he warned.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Her hands closed into fists. She crouched in front of him, a spark of anger in her eyes. Nikko watched it all, debating with himself. He wanted to slip into command mode; to scream at Phousita, demand that she tell him the address so he could come to her now. But that would enrage Arif.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif glared down at Phousita. “Stupid country girl. You think you don’t want me anymore. You’d rather be fucking Nikko. Or that dead boy I found for you in the river. New gods and heroes for your bed. Queen of witches. You’ll have to kill me first.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Her anger burned like a black fire in her eyes. “Like I killed our children?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He sprang into the air. His leg shot out. The ball of his foot struck her cheek a terrible blow. Her head snapped back and she crumpled to the carpet. “Queen of witches!” he screamed at her. “You killed all of us with your spells!”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko tried to slip into command mode. Tried again, but he couldn’t find the proper path.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	It was gone.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif seemed suddenly aware of his efforts. His body went still, his head cocked as if listening. “Ghost-Nikko?” he asked in a soft, dangerous voice. “Aren’t you going to stop me from beating her?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita lay motionless on the floor. Nikko tried again for command, but the mode no longer existed. Arif’s atrium had changed. Phousita had given him his freedom.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif seemed to realize this in the same moment as Nikko. His cheeks stretched as a grin spread across his face. “Ghost-Nikko, the Queen of witches has given me a rich man’s atrium. Now I’m free—to throw you out. Go now. Or I will erase you.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">You bastard. You can’t go on treating her like this</span><span class="none">—</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Get out of my head!” Arif roared. “Get out now! Right now! Or I’ll wipe you out of existence.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	There was no sanctuary in the net. Kirstin would be waiting for him there. </span><span class="none2">You goon-faced bastard!</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Go!”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	He had no choice. He addressed himself to Fox, at Summer House—though he had no expectation of actually arriving there.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	He downloaded.</p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p></div></div></div></div></body></html>
