<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta name="generator" content="http://calibre-ebook.com"/>
    <title>Linda Nagata - Nanotech Succession 01</title>
    <meta name="author" content="The Bohr Maker"/>
    <meta name="creation-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta name="revision-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre1">
<div class="calibre1"><div class="s2"><h2 class="calibre4" id="calibre_pb_26">   <span class="none3">CHAPTER</span></h2><h2 class="calibre5"></h2></div><div class="calibre1"><div class="s3"><h3 class="calibre6"> <span class="none3">26</span></h3><h3 class="calibre6"></h3></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> </span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The biogenesis function was an awesome assemblage of information. As Kirstin watched the investigative staff aboard </span><span class="none2">Galapagos </span><span class="none">wade through its complexities, she began to feel as if they were attempting to decode the entire history of life on Earth. Hours passed. No one was allowed to go off duty. Sleep suppressants were passed around. Meals were served on the bridge. The work continued.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Odd reports began to come in from the scattered officers sent to patrol the House. Most of the animal life had disappeared from the rain forest. The trees were beginning to wither, and the light to fade. Most of the adult human population had also vanished, leaving the children to run about the corridors of the House, unattended. And the kids wouldn’t come near the cops, wouldn’t talk to them. They were like wild animals, loose in a deteriorating habitat, refusing the help of human hands. A few officers had tried to catch some of the errant children. But the kids had slipped out of sight and disappeared. Just disappeared. Not knowing where they went—that was hard on the officers. They could rationalize it; intellectually convince themselves that nothing bad had happened to the little ones. But there were always nagging doubts. And after a while, the cops left the kids alone. No one wanted to be responsible for the loss of a child.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The House itself continued to cooperate with the police except when their inquiries trespassed on “secure information avenues.” But those roads seemed to become more and more common as time wore on.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin could not foresee a neat end to the situation.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She watched the newsfeed out of Castle. Like most major corporations, Summer House operated its own public information channel. The kids had taken that over too, suspending the usual programming, and replacing it with roving footage gathered from around the eerily empty House. There was no narrative. Just endless pictures of the silent kids, the fading city, leaving the viewer to doubt and wonder and doubt. Always, the invisible conductor behind this orchestrated decline seemed to play on doubt.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The general newsfeeds loved it. They picked up the vids for system-wide audiences, and added narratives of their own—shameless speculation about the role of the police in initiating “The Incident.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The Incident: that was what the debacle at Summer House was being called, a vague term for a vague event that no one outside the House could really explain.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	And the system-wide audience grew steadily larger. Billions hung on every lurid speculation, and increasingly, convoluted logic worked up the police as the culprits, the instigators, the party responsible for this slowly unfolding disaster. Kirstin watched the programming and felt her coin shrink. She knew that even on Castle, the very heart of the Commonwealth, the mood was turning against the police. People feared the police reaction more than the odd events on Summer House. Even Congress had publicly called for a cautious response, as if the party to be mistrusted was the police and not the deviant House. It was a masterful feat of propaganda, engineered by an invisible hand. And it worried Kirstin. If the time came, would she be allowed to carry out her duty to safeguard the Commonwealth?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Thirty hours into the investigation, with these and other thoughts on her mind, she was on the bridge of the </span><span class="none2">Galapagos, </span><span class="none">huddled in a strategy session with that ship’s commander. A staff of twenty investigators surrounded them, all working on a three-tiered horseshoe ring of consoles facing the command podium. Above the general speculative mutter of the investigators, one voice suddenly rose in masculine triumph: “We found your nemesis, Chief!”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Silence immediately enveloped the room. Kirstin looked up. Her gaze fixed on the speaker. “Which nemesis?” she growled.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Nikko Jiang-Tibayan,” he announced. “The one who instigated this whole affair.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">Nikko? </span><span class="none">Kirstin straightened, hardly daring to breathe as she approached the console. “You found him?” She glanced at the display, but all she saw was a screen full of genetic code.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Yep, that’s him,” the officer said. “That’s the DNA sequence coding for the enamel in his carapace—or at least a major segment of the gene. As soon as I decode the end markers, we’ll be able to tease out the sequence defining his entire composition. We’ve got him.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She turned away, a cold feeling in her chest. She didn’t bother to point out to the officer that Nikko was already dead, that he’d been killed a day ago by the </span><span class="none2">Galapagos’s </span><span class="none">missiles, that the genetic description just found was that of a deceased being, and that what she really wanted was the </span><span class="none2">author </span><span class="none">of that description. She didn’t bother. Congress had convened its daily session less than an hour ago, and if this fool couldn’t deliver her Fox, she could at least use his fool’s gold to blind the eyes of Congress. “I want a Congressional report ready in five minutes,” she said. “Forward it to my mule on Castle.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	As she returned to the command podium, she felt the gaze of the </span><span class="none2">Galapagos’s </span><span class="none">commander. “What are you up to, Kirstin?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“We’ve just proved Summer House has used the biogenesis function to disguise illegal data. I’m going to petition Congress for permission to destroy the function. That’ll either force the Board of Directors out of hiding or inspire them to move against us.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Either way, it would bring the issue to a head.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The Congressional response came twenty minutes later in the form of an order to proceed. Kirstin read through it grimly, then opened a line to the acting president of Summer House. The gum-chewing kid appeared on her console. His desk had already received a copy of the order. “We’re coming,” Kirstin told him.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Judging from the cold glare on his face, he was finally taking the police presence seriously. He cracked his gum, his gaze reflecting the considerable passion an adolescent could muster. “You can’t touch us,” he said.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin bit down hard on her retort, reminding herself that this kid was not Summer House. He was just a dumb terminal plunked down in front of a camera to frustrate her. Arguing with him would be the equivalent of arguing with a piece of furniture. “We’re coming,” she told him again, fulfilling her legal duty to notify.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He only shrugged. “Come ahead. We won’t stop you. ‘Cause you can’t touch us. You can’t touch the biogenesis function. It’ll be a real laugh, watching you try.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The gum popped and cracked. He glared a lost-rebel glare. And then he cut the connection.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A sudden commotion broke out on the bridge. Kirstin whirled around, to see several of the investigators on their feet. Others were hammering at their consoles. “We’ve lost it!” one of them shouted. His voice rose above the general cacophony.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Silence!” Kirstin barked. The black-uniformed mob froze obediently, but fury showed in the eyes of more than one. She pointed a finger at the senior officer. “Report.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“We’ve lost the biogenesis function,” he said. “It’s disappeared from the House plexus. Disappeared, just like everything else in this house of horrors.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Love and Nature,” Kirstin swore softly. “Why are they going this far? Don’t they believe we’ll respond?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The officer grunted his disdain. “What do they need to worry about?” he asked curtly. “They’ve eaten every one of our assault Makers like so much caviar. They’ve got the molecular arsenal to beat.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She stared past him, gathering her thoughts. The situation was out of control, and her options were narrowing.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p></div></div></div></div></body></html>
