<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta name="generator" content="http://calibre-ebook.com"/>
    <title>Linda Nagata - Nanotech Succession 01</title>
    <meta name="author" content="The Bohr Maker"/>
    <meta name="creation-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta name="revision-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre1">
<div class="calibre1"><div class="s2"><h2 class="calibre4" id="calibre_pb_6">   <span class="none3">CHAPTER</span></h2><h2 class="calibre5"></h2></div><div class="calibre1"><div class="s3"><h3 class="calibre6"> <span class="none3">6</span></h3><h3 class="calibre6"></h3></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> </span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	It was still night when Phousita awoke with a start. She shoved herself up on one elbow and stared at the eerie yellow bioluminescent glow of Arif’s sleeping face. Darkness lay thick all around her. She could hear the breathing of other sleepers, the light wash of rain against the roof, the drippity-drip of water where the roof had gotten leaky. She could smell the sweat on Arif’s body and the musty odor of the warehouse.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Yet the dream that had disturbed her played on, as if she were still asleep. She blinked and rubbed her eyes. No change. There was the old woman, kneeling on the corner of a nearly new woven mat, her wares spread out before her in the sunlight: powders ground from dried cat bones, amulets made of feathers and bits of plastic, the tails of rats, flayed, stretched, and dried (the old woman claimed it was snakeskin), black pumice carefully stored in a glass jar (the cinders of shooting stars), dried flower petals, bowls of foul-smelling liquids, mummified geckos, shiny beetles, nameless bugs. Every day the old woman had displayed her pharmacopoeia in the marketplace, offering charms and potions for every need. Here she was again.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Yet she was </span><span class="none2">not </span><span class="none">here.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita stared into the early morning darkness listening to the rain, while sunlight baked down on her head and shoulders, and the old woman smiled up at her as she used to do when Phousita returned from an afternoon of foraging in the streets. How light Phousita felt under the glow of that smile! The old witch could inspire cheer in the worst of circumstances. Phousita loved her so. She greeted Phousita, jabbering in the hill dialect no one understood. Phousita smiled anyway, proudly showing off the bananas she’d found buried in a rubbish heap behind a little restaurant.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A mosquito whined in the darkness of the warehouse. Phousita slapped at it frantically. How could she be in two places at once? How could she see darkness and sunlight with equal clarity? Past and present as if they were two views from the same room?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She must have cried out, because suddenly Arif’s eyes were open, staring at her. She closed her own eyes as the old woman invited her to sit down in the shade of the cardboard box that served as a home for both of them when the market closed at night. </span><span class="none2">“Arif!”</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	He took her hand, pulled her down in his arms. The hilt of the knife he wore strapped to his chest pressed painfully against her breast. “What is it?” he whispered.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	She pressed her head against his shoulder. “The old woman—she’s <span class="none2">here</span><span class="none">!” Phousita drew back and started to point, but was suddenly unsure of the direction. Finally, she indicated her head. “I can see her, as clearly as I see you,” she hissed. “She serves me water purchased from the water dealers while we eat the bananas I’ve found. She tells me it’s been a good day. Her charms enjoy a powerful reputation. Many people come to buy them. Soon she will have enough money to take me to the Chinese doctor. Can you see her, Arif?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He shook his head and scowled. “Stupid old witch. We don’t need her. Tell her to leave.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Instantly, she was gone. Phousita uttered a small cry of surprise. Tears sprang to her eyes. The old woman had been the first person to show her love…. </span><span class="none2">“Arif!” </span><span class="none">She clenched his arm, her nails biting into his flesh. “It’s you. Now I can see you.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He rolled her over on her back, stroked her belly as if she were a child. “Of course it’s me,” he crooned. “I’m right here.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">“No!” </span><span class="none">She stared past him into the darkness at a new vision. “It’s the first time I’ve ever seen you. That night with </span><span class="none2">tuan, </span><span class="none">your master, in the foreign hotel near the mosque. Oooh, I’m so afraid. They say a ghost possesses you. Horrible night! How I want to leave. Don’t touch me! Are you an animal? I can smell the incense and the blood, your anger, everywhere. </span><span class="none2">Tuan </span><span class="none">still holds the knife. They’ve beaten you, and you’re crying—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He clapped a hand over her mouth. In a strangled voice, </span><span class="none2">“Stop it!”</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	The scene vanished. Only darkness surrounded her now. She lay back against the floor, shaking. “It’s gone,” she whispered.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Arif stared down at her. He looked hurt, ashamed. He’d lived then as a slave in a brothel on the edge of the marketplace. His master had been a horrible man, but a great sorcerer. He’d enlisted a ghost to occupy Arif’s mind and command his body. It was the only way Arif could be controlled. But even that failed in the end, when Arif came upon a blade. While the ghost wandered, he cut out his master’s heart.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“I’m sorry,” Phousita whispered, reaching up to touch Arif’s lips. “But I was there. Again.” She groaned, as a horrible, cramping hunger announced its presence in her belly. She rolled on her side, then slowly sat up, one arm pressed against her stomach to ease the pain. “Come with me?”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	He frowned suspiciously, his long, comical nose bending downward. “Where?”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	She breathed quickly, shallowly, trying to subdue the pain. “To the foreign hotel. We never went hungry when we worked together.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“We planted another <span class="none2">tuan </span><span class="none">yesterday,” he growled. “There’ll be fluff in the morning.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I can’t wait until morning! I need more. Now.” She staggered to her feet. Around her, the breathing rhythm of the sleepers had changed. Many of them were awake, listening. She didn’t care. “Come with me, Arif.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He shook his head, his gaze hard. He tried to grab her hand, but she dodged. With a little jump she cleared a body. She could hear the breathing. Someone pretending to sleep. She listened carefully to the soft noises around her and from them constructed a mental image of the room and its occupants. As if her ears had become eyes, she knew where everyone was, what they were doing. She darted away, her feet touching briefly on bare patches of floor and then she was free of the room, racing down the lightless corridor. Behind her she could hear Arif bellowing some unintelligible order, but it was too late. She hit the door with her forearms. It sprang open. She ran out into the street, while the two Knives who’d been assigned to guard the door stared after her with startled faces.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She slowed for a moment, looking back at them. What was she doing? She and Arif had made a pact: no more prostitution. It was their conceit that they could live without it. They’d founded the clan on that bargain and rescued other children from that fate.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	As if in answer, her stomach twisted with a cramp that doubled her over and left her gasping in agony. She was on her knees before the pain began to ease. “</span><span class="none2">I have to eat,” </span><span class="none">she whispered. And the clan had no food left. “</span><span class="none2">I have to eat!” </span><span class="none">There was never enough food. Too many mouths in the clan. Even with the riches they’d taken from </span><span class="none2">tuan </span><span class="none">there wasn’t enough.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Phousita!”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She looked up as Arif bounded out the door. Without thought, Phousita leapt forward to meet him. Her hand darted out. She snatched his knife from the sheath on his chest, then leaped back. Arif brought himself up sharply, poised, quivering at the point of the knife. She looked at the weapon in surprise. It was firmly clenched in her outstretched hand, the tip pressed against Arif’s chest. He glared at her, his eyes burning with betrayal. Her gaze darted back to the knife. Would she really use it against him?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">Yes.</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	Tears streamed from her eyes as she pressed the blade a little harder against his chest. She could smell the blood as it trickled from the wound. “I love you, Arif.” But she could no longer control her own body. Something else lived inside her now, and it was stronger than she.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Too, it was very, very hungry.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Arif, come with me, please. They always pay more for two.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	He nodded stiffly, his violet eyes like deep pits in the soft glow of his face. She lowered the knife. Her nostrils flared as she drank in the scent of him. He smelled of anger and of love. She turned and ran through the dark streets, making for the lights beyond the slums.</p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Later, much later, Phousita tried to apologize. “I’m sorry, Arif. I couldn’t help it. It’s dead </span><span class="none2">tuan. </span><span class="none">He’s a powerful sorcerer and he commands me now. I had no choice.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Morning had come. The sun peered around the corner of a huge department store across the street. Already, urgent crowds jostled on the sidewalk; vendors were setting up their stands. Taxis and trucks raced quietly past, oblivious of the wary pedestrians trying to cross the street.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif sat huddled beside the plastic wall of a market stall dealing in lamps and oils. He cried softly, his face hidden between his knees. Phousita sat patiently beside him. She watched perfect memories dance like visions behind her eyes while she waited for him to calm down. He always cried on the morning after (as if every time were his first time.) He’d never told her why.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Yet now she </span><span class="none2">knew.</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	She gazed at him, her heart full of sympathy. She said: “Your mother used to sell you on the streets as a punishment for your wickedness. So the pain returns. You know she was right every time you sell yourself.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	He turned his head to look at her, tears still running down his swollen yellow cheeks. Anger narrowed his eyes. “You’re lying.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	She blinked. She’d spoken the truth. (But how did she know that?) Softly: “Perhaps she was not your mother.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	He bolted to his knees. His hands seized her throat and his strong fingers began to squeeze. “She <span class="none2">was </span><span class="none">my mother,” he hissed. “She was! She lied when she said she’d found me. I was </span><span class="none2">not </span><span class="none">thrown away! </span><span class="none2">No one </span><span class="none">threw me away.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita couldn’t breathe. Darkness crept up on the edge of her vision. She gulped, then forced her body to go limp. As she collapsed to the sidewalk Arif let go. She lay still, her head swimming. For a moment she thought she might lose the bellyful of food she’d just bolted down. But the nausea passed. Arif took her hand, helped her up, then swept her into his arms, crooning over her like a child. “I’m sorry, I’m sorry.” The woman in the market stand scowled at them, and Phousita tugged at Arif to get him to move on.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	They walked nearly a mile, arm in arm, before Arif spoke again. “How did you know that about my mother?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I don’t know.” Phousita stared at the sidewalk, swept clean by the inhabitants who’d slept here last night. She’d been wondering the same thing. Certainly she hadn’t known it yesterday. And Arif had said nothing overnight. “I think … I didn’t know it. It was just on my tongue, and I said it. Perhaps dead </span><span class="none2">tuan </span><span class="none">put the words in my mouth. He must be an evil sorcerer.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She stopped before a booth that sold thin strips of barbecued meat skewered on steel picks. She slipped a coin from her sarong and paid it to the vendor. Though her belly was still swollen with food, she could feel the hunger stirring again, as if the spirit that rode her knew she would find nothing more once they returned to the riverfront. She offered meat to Arif, but he refused, his face tight with despair. He’d eaten nothing. It was a covenant of the clan that all food should be saved and shared at the evening meal. So she’d betrayed everyone, not just Arif. Guilt tried to work at her, but it was drowned by the heavenly taste of the barbecue. She finished the meat, then carefully licked every trace of fat from the picks before returning them to the vendor. She and Arif moved on. Several minutes later: “I know things that I cannot know.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif looked at her warily.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I know that </span><span class="none2">tuan </span><span class="none">who bought us last night has a wife he loves dearly and two grown daughters, both employed by the Commonwealth.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“It’s possible,” Arif allowed.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I’m not guessing. I know this.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">“I don’t.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Ah.” His doubt didn’t disturb her. She could see clearly in her mind the steady sequence of unfolding memories, her own, and others she didn’t recognize. She smiled. The vendor at the barbecue stand had been much impressed by her unusual figure: a well-endowed woman, perfectly proportioned, in a body no larger than that of a slight eight-year-old girl. “Why do you suppose <span class="none2">tuan </span><span class="none">is willing to pay so much for sex with freaks like us?” she asked.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Who cares?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She shrugged, remembering again the face of the angel. This was not the face of dead </span><span class="none2">tuan </span><span class="none">whom she’d found in the river. So who might this angel be?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	It would be good to find him, she realized.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She glanced shyly at Arif. “I think I’m becoming a witch.” She waited for some reaction from him, but he said nothing. He stared straight ahead as they walked, carefully avoiding the squatters who occupied the way. She tried again: “Dead </span><span class="none2">tuan </span><span class="none">that we pulled from the river was an evil sorcerer, and he’s turned me into a witch.” She’d been approaching that conclusion all morning. Now that she’d said it out loud, she felt inordinately pleased. She’d always admired the old woman for her ability to cure people with her potions and charms. And the Chinese doctor: he was the greatest sorcerer of all, almost a god.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“If you become a witch, we won’t have to whore again,” Arif said.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita smiled and nodded. “Yes. That’s so.”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p></div></div></div></div></body></html>
