<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta name="generator" content="http://calibre-ebook.com"/>
    <title>Linda Nagata - Nanotech Succession 01</title>
    <meta name="author" content="The Bohr Maker"/>
    <meta name="creation-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta name="revision-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre1">
<div class="calibre1"><div class="s2"><h2 class="calibre4" id="calibre_pb_20">   <span class="none3">CHAPTER</span></h2><h2 class="calibre5"></h2></div><div class="calibre1"><div class="s3"><h3 class="calibre6"> <span class="none3">20</span></h3><h3 class="calibre6"></h3></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> </span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin started her investigation anew after the news of the Bohr Maker’s escape became public. There had been some calls for her resignation after the Congressional hearing, but the complainants were quickly hushed. Her reputation for ruthless persistence still made her the favorite candidate to find the Maker.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Allende knew that, and kept his distance. But he still dogged the investigation. As Director of Internal Security, it was his job to investigate cops. His role in the case had begun with the defection of Jensen Van Ness and should have ended there. But he’d hung on, investigating the cops who investigated the case, developing a report that would ostensibly explain why the Maker was still missing. He watched Kirstin. He reported to Congress that the Chief of Police had mishandled the case. He sought to wound her. But she had the agility to turn his assaults to her own advantage.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Allende had engineered her appearance in Congress. But Kirstin had benefited from the publicity. No longer did she need to conduct a subtle investigation. After the hearings, she commenced a series of massive data searches, inspecting every form of surveillance recorded since the original theft.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	So much information was transcribed in the Commonwealth that a known fact could disappear as easily into the sea of data as an unrecorded fact could vanish into the past. Nevertheless, Kirstin commenced her investigation. Never before had such a thorough survey of records been contemplated. As the weeks passed and the monumental procedure ground on, the news feeds began to mock it as “the slow eye of God.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin continued to pursue her quarry.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	DI’s were instructed to review all visual records collected at the Gates, searching for:</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	(1) an optical identification of Phousita and Arif.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	(2) an optical identification of all individuals approximately the body sizes of Phousita and Arif.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The first target achieved zero results. The second achieved three hundred thousand in the first week, each requiring a secondary evaluation.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A human investigator was assigned the task of developing a projection of what Arif would look like if his face were healed. Another human investigator was given the objective of developing a psychological profile of Phousita that would predict how she might change her physical appearance. Kirstin regarded this assignment as the ultimate soft science. Little more than witchcraft, really. She had no faith in it. It produced no usable results.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Another DI checked scents recorded at the Gates and on the Highway. Another investigator developed a projection of the possible evolutionary scenarios of Phousita’s and Arif’s changing scent profiles. The DI was instructed to search for those, as well. Again, no results.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Another DI was given the task of performing background checks on all identity chips recorded at the Highway Gates, to ensure that each one led back to a real person with a verifiable history. No anomalous results.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Another DI was set the task of combing through all the surveillance data recorded on Castle: every bit of information pulled in by the filters, cameras, and microphones set to watch over the city at the end of the elevator. Every public area and many private ones were covered by the surveillance net and the quantity of data collected was immense. The time needed to sort through it was measured in days. But in the end the effort paid off, with the discovery of a single word uttered within range of a microphone at the Castle docks: “Phousita.”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Though Nikko had written Summer House as his destination when he fled Arif’s atrium, he had no expectation of actually arriving there. He knew the cops would pick him up in transit. In all likelihood, Kirstin would greet him herself.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	So it came as no surprise when he found himself seated across a desk from a uniformed cop, in an environment so close to weightless that he had to be on Castle. He did feel a mild jolt when he realized the cop was not Kirstin.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The officer scrutinized him with small, dark eyes—a stout man with heavy hands that rested tensely against the desk. By his uniform, a high-ranking cop, a section commander. With a legal atrium.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	For the first time in weeks, Nikko found himself physically manifest. The sheer joy of experiencing his own existence almost overwhelmed his rational mind. He hardly noticed the annoying twitch in his hands. Then his gaze met that of the hard-eyed cop and he knew he must seek a measure of the situation. “I know you,” he said bluntly.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	It was half true. He’d seen this man before. He searched his memory for a name to match against the face.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“It’s Allende,” the cop said. “I’ve been waiting a long time for you to show.” He looked up and down Nikko’s long blue body with an expression that wavered between admiration and disgust.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“And Kirstin?” Nikko asked.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Allende smiled coldly. “You don’t want to see her, do you?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“No.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“She’s been hunting hard for you—but under a false pattern. You see, I revised your file. Now I’m the only one who has your true pattern.” He grinned. “We can deal with each other, I think. You have the Bohr Maker?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko studied him, feeling his way into the situation. Was Allende looking to cross the cops? “The Bohr Maker,” Nikko said. “You want to deal for it?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You have it, don’t you?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko leaned back in his chair and drew a careful breath. He took a second to explore the atrium that held him. He discovered the prisoner’s jacket Allende had written around his electronic pattern. He was trapped here—unless Allende freed him.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“What are you prepared to offer?” Nikko asked.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I’ll open the Gates for you. You can go where you like.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Why?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Kirstin wants to destroy the Maker.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko nodded, understanding. “And you don’t.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Give up our finest weapon?” Allende asked. “It’s absurd.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I do have it,” Nikko said, cherishing his blank, blue, expressionless face—it could never betray him. “But not with me.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I traced your path,” Allende said. “I know you originated on a ship in the void.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“The Maker is there,” Nikko agreed.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Allende’s lips pulled back in a hungry expression. “Then it got past two Gates and all the filters on Castle! Incredible!”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“It is the Bohr Maker,” Nikko reminded him. He leaned forward. “I can give you the ship’s command codes. But the rest will be up to you.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Then do it.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko shook his head. “I want to get through the Gates first. When I’m on Summer House, I’ll give you the codes.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Allende’s eyes narrowed, “But Jiang-Tibayan, I don’t trust you either.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko nodded. He’d dealt with similar situations before. “Then I’ll leave the codes here,” he offered. “But electronically sealed. Jacket me with a rebound signal. When I reach the House, the signal will bounce back and release the codes.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Allende nodded slowly. “That’ll do,” he said. “That’ll do.”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin had encountered hundreds of false leads during the weeks-long data search. She no longer had the capacity to get excited when an investigator brought her the latest, not even when it was the clearly recorded name of the primary suspect: “Phousita.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But her interest grew as further investigation revealed that the name had been spoken in a concourse lobby serving (at the time) a ship belonging (through a complex trail of subsidiary corporations) to Summer House. After that it was a brief operation to call up the identities of the two passengers as recorded from their implanted chips. Not surprisingly, their documented names were meaningless; their life histories generic. But when their route was backtracked, it led to the Free Trade Zone.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A few minutes later it was discovered that Marevic Chun had issued the ship’s guidance program.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin decided to visit Marevic Chun in person. She assembled a cadre of uniformed officers to accompany her. At the last minute, Allende showed up and included himself in the party.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Marevic’s home territory was high up in the Castle tower that belonged to Summer House. She rarely emerged from her suite of offices there. Naturally, by the time Kirstin had led her officers past the maze of security devices and secretaries set up to impede the progress of any outsider through the corporate grounds, Marevic had ample warning of their impending arrival. She greeted Kirstin coldly, but without surprise, from her seat behind a large wooden desk. “Chief Adair. I’d thought your investigators were through examining our corporate records.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin grinned. “No, Marevic. In fact, I’ve just obtained a warrant to open your personal files. You are under arrest.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Marevic’s delicate face didn’t change expression. “On what charge?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Forging identity chips.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She blinked at that. “Do you have evidence?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I have two individuals entirely unknown to anyone in their professed hometown.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“And what connection do they have to me?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You wrote their travel orders.”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko had half expected Allende to betray him to Kirstin. But apparently the Director of Internal Security really did have his own agenda, because when Nikko manifested again, he found himself in Fox’s apartment at Summer House.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A holographic simulation of a vertical cross section of Summer House filled the center of the room. Fox stood beside it, regarding Nikko with a comical expression of mingled suspicion and astonishment.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko whooped in joy, slapping his projected blue palms against the ceiling. “I made it, Dad!” His amazement at his own good fortune bubbled over in a hearty laugh. “I actually made it home!”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The past weeks had not treated Fox well. He looked considerably older. Gray streaks ran through his thinning red hair, his shoulders were stooped, and deep lines of worry tracked across his face.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Hey Dad,” Nikko said. “Things aren’t as bad as you think.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox took one step forward. His hand came up. “Where did you come from?” he asked, in a hoarse voice that was barely more than a whisper. “When did you originate? How did you get through the Gates?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko glanced away, uneasy at the distress he saw in Fox, uncertain how to respond to it. His gaze fell on the holographic display, and lingered there, drawn in by the exquisite detail. He could make out birds flitting through the canopy of the forest, and people walking in the corridors. He glanced at Fox again. Fox wasn’t paying any attention to the simulation, yet the atrium followed the changing display with no loss of resolution. How many times had Fox watched this simulation run?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He shook off the thought. He had more pressing business. “I need your help, Dad.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But his gaze was drawn back to the simulation. Something had gone wrong with it. He watched as the House deteriorated: its inner features dissolved; the forest rotted away; people disappeared. The scene unsettled Nikko. It was like looking at a time-compressed video of natural decay, except that the decaying body was that of Summer House.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Within seconds, a dark lattice appeared as corridors expanded vertically. A few seconds more, and the House had been divided into cells of varying sizes, from a few tens to hundreds of meters per side. The cells clustered into groups, separated by narrow, black-walled channels. There was a moment’s pause. Then the cells split apart and spun off into the void.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Love and Nature!” Nikko exclaimed, shaken by the destruction. “Fox, what is that?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox glanced over his shoulder. His eyes opened wide in a startled expression. “Display off!” he barked. He looked back at Nikko, his brow furrowed with anger. “It’s nothing,” he snapped. “Just a project one of my students submitted.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko didn’t believe him. “It’s more than that. Have you found something wrong with the House? Is it unstable?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“No, no. The House is fine. What you saw was a survival strategy.” He chewed his lip nervously. “Look, Nikko. You’re a fugitive. The less you know, the better.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But Nikko’s guesses were already leaping ahead. “A survival strategy? Does it have to do with the biogenesis function, then?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox didn’t answer, but his expression gave him away.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“It does,” Nikko said. “But why destroy the House? A survival strategy?” His kisheer pulled in close around his neck. “Those were reproductive cells, weren’t they?” He shook his head, incredulous. “A survival strategy, in case of disaster. That’s what you’re working on.” He laughed in disbelief. “Do you really think the House can be </span><span class="none2">seeded?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	Fox shrugged. He looked unhappy.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Listen,” Nikko said. “I really do need your help. There’s a ship just a few days out of Summer House. Aboard, in the possession of one of the two passengers, is a physical and psychological record of Sandor. But the ship’s not going to stop here. It’ll pass the House and return to Castle. I have to get the passengers off before that happens. You’ll help me, Dad? Won’t you?”</p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Marevic’s defensive Makers were very, very good. Also unregistered and therefore illegal. It took the police research division several hours to define their structure and develop an assault Maker that could overcome them. But after that it was easy to introduce a psychoactive drug to her system. Minutes later, she reached a state in which she could not resist answering any question put to her. She sat on a couch in an isolation chamber at police headquarters, her lawyer at her side. Her tiny mouth was turned in a foreboding frown. She wasn’t at all tipsy. Merely irresistibly talkative.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin stood in the center of the room, studying her, weighing the possibility that research had missed something. Could Marevic be faking her cooperative state?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Research insisted they really had her. And they were Kirstin’s people. She had to trust them.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She glanced at Allende. He stood in one corner of the room, ostensibly observing. But his gaze was fixed on the floor, while a worried frown played across his face. Kirstin’s brows rose in sudden suspicion. Was he afraid Marevic might reveal something about him? She determined to study the record of this session and gauge his reactions. But for now, she sat down with her team on a couch across from Marevic.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The interrogator took that as a cue to begin. He leaned forward, his gaze fixed on Chun’s face. “Marevic Chun. You’re aware of the case against you. Tell us the real identities of the recipients of the false ID chips.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Marevic shuddered, and shifted in her seat. “They’re nonentities within the Commonwealth,” she growled. “They have no identities.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Tell us the </span><span class="none2">names </span><span class="none">of the recipients of the false ID chips,” the interrogator said in precise, measured words.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Marevic’s breathing suddenly became deep and husky as she fought to resist the biochemical urge to speak. “Phousita,” she grunted. “No known last name. Arif. No known last name.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin grinned, while her officers muttered in quiet triumph.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Phousita and Arif,” the interrogator said, the only one in the room who hadn’t changed expression. “Are these two presently aboard a vessel bound for Summer House?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Marevic’s hands had been lying still in her lap. Now they suddenly grasped each other, the fingers working madly. “They’re bound for Gold Wing,” she said, between clenched teeth.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“And is Gold Wing an on-site subsidiary of Summer House?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Her face was turning red; her expression was furious. “Yes.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Is Phousita or Arif presently in possession of the artifact popularly known as Bohr’s Maker?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I don’t know.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The interrogator didn’t stumble. “Do you </span><span class="none2">believe </span><span class="none">that they are presently in possession of the artifact popularly known as Bohr’s Maker?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Yes!” The word emerged like a small explosion.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin leaned forward. “Are you aware of the location of any ghost of Nikko Jiang-Tibayan?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“That question does not pertain to this investigation!” the lawyer protested.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But Marevic answered it anyway. “Yes.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Admission of a felony,” Kirstin said. “We’re broadening the investigation.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Not without a warrant.” The lawyer rose to his feet. He stood in front of Marevic, as if he could protect her.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	From his corner, Allende spoke in a deep, angry voice. “This forced interrogation is for the sole purpose of investigating Marevic Chun’s involvement with the forged identify chips. If you venture beyond that specific without a warrant, Chief Adair, I will have you removed from the police force.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin felt a chill run up her spine. Allende was hiding something. She was certain of it. “Request a warrant,” she instructed one of her officers.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	There was silence in the room for several minutes. Then the warrant arrived simultaneously in the atriums of everyone present. The lawyer sat down again beside his client. The interrogator repeated Kirstin’s question. “Marevic Chun, are you aware of the location of any ghost of Nikko Jiang-Tibayan?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Yes,” she said again.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“What is that location?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“An atrium.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">“Whose </span><span class="none">atrium?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Arif.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“This ghost is aboard the ship that—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Marevic’s chin came up. Her eyes squeezed shut as if she’d been lanced with sudden pain.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin rose to her feet, sensing disaster. “The control codes!” she shouted. “What are the ship’s control codes?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The alphanumeric sequence emerged from Marevic’s throat in forced, guttural, monosyllabic bursts. After twelve digits she collapsed against the back of the couch. Her head lolled on the cushions. Kirstin stood over her, fists clenched as she resisted an urge to slap her awake.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	One of the medics skidded to her side. The lawyer tried to shove him away, but Kirstin signaled to her uniforms, and they hauled the lawyer out of the way. “Tell us what’s wrong with you, Marevic,” Kirstin commanded.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I don’t remember.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Tell us your name,” the medic said in a gentler voice, as he pressed a series of dermal patches against her neck.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Marevic Chun.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“What are the ship’s control codes?” Kirstin growled.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“What ship?” Her eyes were open now, fluttering.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The interrogator tapped Kirstin on the shoulder, inviting her to step back so that he could resume his job. She cast him a scathing glance. But this was his specialty. She stepped aside.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Ignoring the lawyer’s protests, the interrogator crouched in front of Marevic. “The ship we’ve been discussing,” he said gently. “You remember it, don’t you?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Marevic slouched in her seat, a confused frown on her face. “No, I don’t remember.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“How can she lie?” Kirstin demanded.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“She’s poisoned herself,” the medic said. He examined one of the dermal patches on her neck. “There are indications of brain tissue destruction.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Where do you live, Marevic?” the interrogator asked.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Ecuador.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin’s teeth came together in a hard line. Marevic and Fox had lived together in Ecuador almost eighty years ago. “How old are you, Marevic?” she asked, in a voice cold with fury.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Thirty-four.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The interrogator settled back on his heels. He looked up at Kirstin. “We can keep trying if you like, but it’s fairly obvious she’s induced extensive—and probably permanent—amnesia.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin’s hands clenched behind her back. “Issue a warrant for her ghosts.” Not that she expected to find any. Not at this late hour. But she had twelve digits of the ship’s control codes. It should be possible to work out the remainder through trial and error. And once they had control of the ship, it would be a small task to program a missile to destroy it.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She glanced again at Allende. He was glaring at Marevic, his yellow teeth bared.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox wanted to say no. Nikko could see it in his posture. He paced back and forth across the wheat-colored carpet, shoulders bowed, hands clasped behind his back, his red hair bouncing up and down around his ears. He did not want to cross the police. But he wanted Sandor. Fox was a devoted father.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He stopped abruptly in the middle of the room and straightened his shoulders. Sweat shone on his wrinkled forehead. His eyetooth bit down so hard on the inside of his lip that Nikko was sure it must have drawn blood. “I can’t act autonomously,” he announced. “I’ll have to get the approval of the Board of Directors.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko felt the first flush of triumph. “You can sway them.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“The rescue should be as secretive as possible.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Sure.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I’ve got a scheme in mind, but it requires </span><span class="none2">you </span><span class="none">to go out after them, in a small ship, without life support.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Really?” Nikko found the notion both appealing and frightening. He’d never been away from Summer House. Not physically anyway. Then he remembered: “What can I do on my own? I’m a ghost.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“We can address that. I recorded your pattern, you know.” His brow wrinkled uncertainly. “No. You don’t know. This ghost originated before that event….” He started pacing again. The sweat on his brow began to bead on the crests of thoughtful furrows.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You’re saying you can resurrect me, then?” Nikko pressed.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox looked put out. “The biogenesis function,” he said. “Remember?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You preserved my code. But it’ll take months to develop a physical clone.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“No. It’ll only take a day and a half.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You said a day and a half.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox frowned. “Maybe not that long,” he admitted. “Maybe thirty hours.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“But that’s impossible. It takes half a year to grow a clone in the mausoleum tanks.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“The biogenesis function involves a modular growth system. We’ve tested it on various animals. The assembly takes place in segments, under low temperatures. The available work surfaces are enormous and of course the nutritional matrix is kept fully supplied.” He stopped pacing again to look at Nikko. “But I’m allowing myself to be overconfident. I won’t mislead you. We’ve never done it quite this way before. You see, after Summer House mapped your cell structure, the data was scattered in packets throughout the biogenesis function to make it harder to detect. The linking codes were highly redundant of course, and reassembling your physical structure shouldn’t be a problem. Still, reality remains the only good check of a virgin system.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Thanks for the shot of confidence, Fox. Are you going to be able to correct the nervous disorder?” He held up his trembling hands.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox stared at them resentfully. “You’ll be exactly the same as you were when you went in. I won’t introduce any modifications until you’re whole again. After that…” He shrugged. “No point in holding back now, is there?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I </span><span class="none2">never </span><span class="none">saw any point to it.” He wondered for a moment if Fox would have bothered to go after the fugitive ship if Sandor had made it back to Summer House, and Nikko had been the one stranded on the robotic vessel. But that wasn’t fair. Fox had preserved his pattern in defiance of the law—although at very little risk to himself. Nikko’s fingers tapped against his thigh. “So tell me, Dad. If this ghost hadn’t made it back here, how long would you have kept me dormant?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox shrugged. “Until you were safe.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko didn’t like the vague feeling that answer gave him. He visualized himself, tucked away and forgotten. “And how long did you think that would be?” he pressed. “A year? Fifty years? A few hundred?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A guarded expression slipped across Fox’s face. “I hadn’t worked up a projection.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“No, of course not. The cops might have been looking over your shoulder. They might have caught on. Right, Fox?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“There’s no point in snapping at me, Nikko. I’m on your side.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But Nikko hadn’t had physiological responses in so long—even simulated ones—that he felt overwhelmed by them now. Bitter. Angry. Almost out of control. He could feel himself sliding into a reflexive verbal assault. “You’re on my side so long as it’s safe for you and the House. </span><span class="none2">That’s </span><span class="none">how it’s always been with you.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox gazed at him, his expression oddly calm. “I know you think I’m a coward. But you don’t have children. You don’t know what it’s like to really be afraid.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Right. Well you didn’t fight too hard to keep me around. And now that Sandor’s gone, you don’t have any children at all, do you, Fox? Not anymore.” The words emerged out of anger. But once spoken, they were impossible to recall.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox went very still. His chin came up. “It’s true I could have done more for you, Nikko. I guess I probably should have. But revolutions have a way of consuming their originators. I was afraid for myself. I was afraid for the House.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“The House: that’s your first child, isn’t it?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox didn’t deny it. Instead he returned to the business at hand, as if he could eliminate the hurt by pretending it didn’t exist. “I want you to download into your physical construction as soon as the brain tissue is adequate to support you. If the police suspect your ghost exists, my atrium is the first place they’ll look.”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p></div></div></div></div></body></html>
