<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta name="generator" content="http://calibre-ebook.com"/>
    <title>Linda Nagata - Nanotech Succession 01</title>
    <meta name="author" content="The Bohr Maker"/>
    <meta name="creation-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta name="revision-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre1">
<div class="calibre1"><div class="s2"><h2 class="calibre4" id="calibre_pb_2">   <span class="none3">CHAPTER</span></h2><h2 class="calibre5"></h2></div><div class="calibre1"><div class="s3"><h3 class="calibre6"> <span class="none3">2</span></h3><h3 class="calibre6"></h3></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> </span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Name?” the majordomo program asked.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko, who was in truth only a program himself, a modern ghost, an electronic entity copied from the mind of his original self, had little patience for Dull Intelligences. “The name’s Nikko,” he growled. “Rhymes with psycho. Nikko Jiang-Tibayan. I’ve only been here a hundred times you decrepit excuse for a secretary.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He could hear Kirstin laughing, somewhere over the electronic horizon, a dim sound in the majordomo’s limited sensorial world. “Are you going to admit me or not?” he snapped.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Of course, sir. The lady is expecting you.” A pathway opened, and the electronic pattern that constituted Nikko’s ghost slid through it into Kirstin’s mind. Physically, his ghost occupied her atrium, an accessory organ that had been induced to grow as a filamentous tissue in her brain. But the atrium had drawn on her sensorium to create for him a psychic environment that was a precise duplicate of the room which Kirstin occupied. From her point of view, he was simply an overlay on her physical reality, a virtual companion—invisible to anyone but herself—yet she could host him in the real-space of her house. And though he was only a ghost, she could see him, scent him, touch him, taste him again … as she’d done many times before.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Today, though, he carried with him a sense of urgency, a certainty that his time was running out. He had a few more weeks at most, Dad said. The end was impossible to predict precisely, but it wouldn’t be long. Nikko could already feel the gathering presence of death, manifest in the clumsiness that had begun to afflict him as his nervous system degenerated under a preprogrammed genetic code … a clumsiness that was replicated perfectly by his ghost.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin held a hand out to him, the gold rings on her fine fingers bright against the perfect ebony of her skin. She smiled a cool, possessive smile as she anticipated his touch—no, the </span><span class="none2">simulation </span><span class="none">of his touch, a tactile hallucination of the atrium, inspired by this electronic ghost inside her mind.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He took her hand, his own extraordinarily long, china-blue fingers twitching uncontrollably. She frowned at this latest disability, but for the moment she chose to overlook it.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Still, he felt her scorn. He would have scowled at her then, if he could. But his face wasn’t made for that. He was, after all, only an experimental model, a singular prototype of an artificial human variant that had since been banned by the Commonwealth. A unique freak. The myriad small platelets that composed his enameled hide could conceivably perform a clumsy imitation of most human expressions. But Dad hadn’t attached much importance to that aspect of Nikko’s design. Instead, he’d rerouted the cranial nerve that would normally control the tiny muscles in the human face to service the kisheer, the symbiotic organ that sealed his mouth and nose and ears under vacuum, providing him with oxygen on the Outside. But Nikko didn’t spend much time mourning his lack of expressions. A cold stare served most of his purposes well enough.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I’ve been asking to see you for nearly a week,” he growled at Kirstin. His fingers wrapped across the back of her hand and then around her wrist, though he was careful not to flex the muscles in his arm. The atrium would simulate that. In the tiny pseudogravity of Kirstin’s home, an object would take over two seconds to fall one meter to the floor, and a lover could be swept off her feet with only a small investment. But Nikko wasn’t in the mood for games like that. He said: “Maybe I’ll find another lover, if you don’t want to fill up my last remaining days.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Ah Nikko, as charming as ever, I see.” She lifted his hand, to stroke the smooth enamel of it against her dark face. Her coppery hair was coarse and kinked, floating in an undisciplined cloud around her shoulders. Her features were Northern European: a blocky nose and a heavy, rectangular face. The cream-coffee eyes that measured him seemed too light for her skin. Nikko found her plain. But he wasn’t here out of love, as she well knew.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He gazed past her in sudden surprise. She had a painting of him on her living room wall! He recognized her style. “That’s a romantic bit of trash,” he said, as he slid carefully around her to take a closer look.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“What’s wrong with it?” Kirstin exclaimed, her voice a curious mix of amusement and anger. “I thought you’d like it.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He glared at the piece. If she’d depicted him under conditions of atmosphere his kisheer would have lain across his shoulders like a short gray cape. But instead she’d placed him in the vacuum forest of glassine trees that grew on the outer walls of Summer House, displaying him with the respiratory organ in active position, its supple gray tissue raised over his mouth and nose and ears like a veil. There was something feral in the poised stance she’d given him; he crouched, his toes wrapped securely around a low branch while his intent gaze seemed to track some object offscreen. His hands were half-raised, ready.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Is that how you see me?” he asked. “Like an animal? In my ‘element’?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Take it as a compliment, Nikko.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“When it’s meant as an indictment?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	In the portrait he seemed something other than human. His head was smooth and hairless with a high forehead. His face was half-masked, his flat Asian nose and petite ears barely visible beneath the kisheer. He had no eyebrows. Dad had substituted a dramatic ridge of black. His eyes were blue, and quite human-ordinary—though behind their protective crystal lenses they were difficult to see. In the portrait he was nude, as always, his body a smooth, elongated masculine sculpture covered in living armor designed to protect him from the zero pressure of the void, gleaming in a shade of blue called nikko. An accessory organ closed over his genital and anal zones like a living loincloth, a bow to the modesty of society, and protection for him under vacuum.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I’m an historian,” he told Kirstin. “Not a zoological exhibit.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin’s arm slipped around his waist. She pulled herself against him. Her breasts felt too soft and vulnerable against his enameled skin. But bedded in them, the hard thrust of her nipples seemed to warn of her armored soul. “You’re beautiful,” she said. “And I won’t have you much longer. Why shouldn’t I remember you as you really were?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	His face couldn’t show contempt, but his voice communicated it well enough. “So why don’t you paint me plugging you in your bed?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She grinned. “And admit to the world that I practice bestiality?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He pulled away from her. “I am </span><span class="none2">not </span><span class="none">an animal!” He was what every person inhabiting the thousand celestial cities of the Commonwealth should be—a graceful being adapted to the new environment, able to function in vacuum without pressure suit or air supply, equally at home in a corridor of one of the orbiting cities. And that was why the Commonwealth despised him—he was the future they were afraid to accept.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin taunted him with her cool gaze. “Don’t chide me, Nikko. I wasn’t the one who made you what you are. That was your dear old dad. Fox Jiang-Tibayan: he thought he could be a better designer than the Goddess herself. Too bad for you he didn’t examine the consequences before he started.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko felt his long fingers close into a fist. </span><span class="none2">The Goddess. </span><span class="none">Mother Earth was a fucked-up old tyrant. She could use a little outside help in the evolutionary process. But Kirstin didn’t see it that way. Her Gaian philosophies condemned any artificial advance in the physiology of the human species—a view that meshed nicely with the secular laws of the Commonwealth.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin approached him again. She laid two fingers against his smooth chest. “You’re an historian,” she said, tracing a slow circle on his skin. “You studied under Marevic Chun and you’ve dedicated your life to stirring up trouble. You’ve had fun, haven’t you? Selectively exposing scandal and corruption to wound the corporations that compete with Summer House. Even attacking the police. But you’ve never looked into your own history.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You’re wrong,” he said, turning away from her, uncomfortable with this subject. “I know that litany.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She smiled. “Ah, but you’ve only had it from one side. You know that Fox created you on the authority of a research permit, but did he tell you that he obtained that permit by bribe and threat and political favor? You’re an historian, Nikko. You should know the facts. I testified against the permit, but it didn’t matter. Fox knew all the right people.” Her chin tilted up and she laughed lightly, remembering. “You should have seen him. He was so pleased with himself. He never considered what would happen when the permit expired.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The permit had been issued by the Congressional science advisory committee for a period of thirty years. Dad had been required to build the expiration date into his design. At the time he hadn’t seen that as a problem. In thirty years, Fox had expected artificial humans would be commonplace, and that he would have no trouble in getting the permission to reverse Nikko’s condition. But instead the passage of time had ossified the nascent bigotry of the Commonwealth. There had been no extension on the research permit that allowed Nikko to exist. In a few more weeks, it would expire.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin slid her hand up to his shoulders. Her fingers dabbled at his kisheer: a gesture calculated to arouse him. He’d come to her as a last resort. Kirstin Adair, Chief of the Commonwealth Police, charged with enforcing the laws that limited the use of nanotechnology. It was one of her duties to ensure that society remained human. Yet she also had the authority to grant him a reprieve.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko was an historian. He’d learned his trade from Marevic Chun, one of the founders of Summer House. She’d taught him how to hunt the data trails, to dig beneath the civil veneer most people and corporate entities presented to the world, to forage amongst forgotten electronic notes, reports and memos, to finagle interviews with reclusive people and ghosts, all to reconstruct the veiled events of the very recent past and with any luck to embarrass the Commonwealth and the police, to expose their corruption, to generate a backlash of disgust that would drive the trend line of history toward a more liberal political climate that might allow him to live.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He’d failed in that. But he’d succeeded in other things. He’d used his skills to track down Kirstin’s past, and he’d come to understand her, long before they met.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Without further words, they retired to the bedroom. Nikko’s gaze swept across the collage mounted on the wall above the bed: an impressionistic melange of teeth and bone and hair and shreds of skin in bright, artificial colors, all knit together with airbrushed genetic patterns he hadn’t the skill to read.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin had already slipped out of her gown, leaving it to drift slowly to the floor. Her one-hundred-and-twenty-odd-year-old body waited for him on the bed, as fresh and full as any teenager’s. He joined her.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She pulled him toward her in her silent, hungry way. His belly slid across hers: smooth, hard enamel skating on yielding flesh. Her nails slipped across his armored breast. He flexed his arms and slowly sank against her. His mouth found hers. He knew what she felt: kissing him was like kissing a china statue come to life. But his mouth and tongue were as soft and warm as hers and more intricate, a sea of papillae designed to mesh with the kisheer when he needed that to breathe.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	His kisheer had shriveled in his body’s excitement. It lay like a wrinkled kerchief around his neck. She licked at it, teasing it open. His hand was on her throat. He stroked her fine black skin, feeling her pulse beat a fierce rhythm beneath his sensitive fingertips.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Suddenly, unexpectedly, her teeth sank into his kisheer. He screamed in pain and dove against her. </span><span class="none2">“Stop it!” </span><span class="none">he hissed, while his fingers squeezed a gentle warning against her throat … fingers long enough to encircle her entire neck….</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But she hissed at him in turn. </span><span class="none2">“You </span><span class="none">need </span><span class="none2">me, </span><span class="none">Nikko.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She knew what she was doing. She controlled the situation. It was her atrium, and she could throw him out at any time.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She bit deeper. The pain began to cloud his brain. He felt himself begin to overheat. He couldn’t dump heat with the efficiency of a human-ordinary. So he did the only thing he could: gave in to her completely, hating her, even as her body took command of him, drawing his sterile seed out in a prolonged burst of wracking, shivering lust.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Later, as he daubed at the blood still oozing from his kisheer, he had to remind himself that none of this was real. He was, after all, only a ghost of his true self, existing within Kirstin’s atrium, nothing more than an overlay on the reality of her world.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But ghosts were not simple, inconsequential fantasies. A scarred ghost could return home and scar its master. Over the years, many of his ghosts had never returned to him. He knew that some had simply been erased. But sometimes, he suspected, a damaged ghost would choose not to return home, to save him from its pain.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He lay back on the bed, feeling his body settle slowly down upon the sheets. Kirstin snuggled against him, her hand stroking his belly over and over again. She loved to touch him.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He put his arm around her. He knew he should say something sweet now, make himself endearing. But he didn’t think he could pull it off.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	His gaze fixed on the collage mounted over the bed. The thing repulsed him. It was Kirstin’s perverted way of displaying the human trophies she’d collected over the years: illegal body parts gathered from her victims, artfully arranged in collage to suggest the jagged slopes of a forested mountain. Here, diamond teeth became an exposed escarpment. There, the cropped bits of hair grown of actual gold were trees blurred by mist. Silver-gray skin stretched in mystery across the gullies, blue skin a pale canopy of sky. And running through it all, like woodland spirits, the twisted, translucent genetic patterns describing modifications to human systems that went beyond the bounds of the law.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin could claim a long and illustrious career of enforcing the law.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The law: there was no simple, profound statement that could contain it. The law of the Commonwealth was a very human thing, built on conviction and avarice, riddled with loopholes, as alive as the genetic record of the species and in as constant a state of change. An edifice built to address a primary concern: what is </span><span class="none2">human? </span><span class="none">With the passing years, the answer to that became ever more difficult to define.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Unlike the ancestral type, a modern human need not grow old. Aging was considered a defect in the human genome, not as a defining parameter of the species. But the inclusion of artificial genetic structures was forbidden. There were exceptions. There were clauses. But a basic summary of the law could be held to say: mix and mingle active human genetic material as you like—change your color, change your size, change your face. Replace the genes for disease, for aging, for personality disorders with more socially acceptable versions. But do not mingle the human inheritance with nonhuman or artificial instructions. Do not augment the human mind with machine intelligence.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The law had much to say about nonhuman intelligence. Commonwealth society could not have functioned without an army of Dull Intelligences to oversee routine regulatory and analytical functions. But adaptive, volitional, or conscious machine intelligences were banned. By law, creativity was a function reserved for human minds.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin was a firm believer in the law.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She touched his shoulder. “You remind me of Leander Bohr in his last days.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko shuddered. Leander Bohr. She brought up that name to torment him! Bohr had been a Gaian terrorist when he’d taken on a very youthful Kirstin as protegee and lover. He was still considered the greatest molecular designer who’d ever lived. Entirely self-taught, so the legend said. Unnumbered orphan from the slums of Berlin—some contemporaries swore Leander hadn’t known how to read until he’d designed Bohr’s Maker. Then the molecular machine taught </span><span class="none2">him, </span><span class="none">illegally rewiring his neural architecture in the process.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Legal Makers were programmable molecular machines endowed with a Dull Intelligence that would enable them to execute only one function, or at most a series of functions leading to a single objective, such as the construction of a ship’s hull or a set of clothes. By contrast, the Bohr Maker’s capabilities were more open-ended. It could adapt itself to the needs of its host through an illegal self-programming feature.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	At its essence, the Bohr Maker was a microscopic packet of instructions. But once the instructions were executed, it became a molecular communications and design system that would insinuate itself throughout the body and mind of a single host, resulting in profound physiological change. The host individual would own the talents of an expert in molecular design, along with the physical mechanisms to execute those designs.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Most Makers had a learning function that would allow them to refine their programming through experience. But the Bohr Maker could develop entirely new programming functions, at a rate that far exceeded the best human minds. The Bohr Maker was illegal under the law, not only because of its status as a volitional intelligence, but because its activities compelled the corruption of human physiology.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I feel strange,” Kirstin mused, her breath blowing soft over Nikko’s kisheer. “Almost regretful. I haven’t felt this way since those final hours with Leander.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko felt the dry wings of panicked butterflies beating in his belly. He felt as if he were about to float away from the bed. “Did Bohr know he was doomed?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She smiled indulgently. “I didn’t have the same reputation then, Nikko dear. But </span><span class="none2">I</span><span class="none"> knew he was doomed. It’s the same sense I have with you.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko rolled away from her. She was toying with him. Daring him to ask for a reprieve … so she could turn him down.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He lay on the bed, staring at Kirstin’s collage. Futility weighed on him in defiance of the tiny gravity. He felt he could hardly move. But Kirstin was as moody as a rock. “I’m glad you came today, Nikko darling,” she said cheerily. “I’ve really had a bad day.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Oh? What went wrong? No mutant babies for lunch?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“If only.” She laughed. “If only I could selectively terminate certain constituents of our research division … that Jensen Van Ness in particular.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko felt his heart begin to thunder in his chest; his kisheer went still across his shoulders. Jensen Van Ness. Had she finally fixed him at that address? “Van Ness,” he muttered, as if the name were a mere historical curiosity. “He was with the cops the day you brought down Leander Bohr; part of the investigative team, right?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin ran a long-nailed finger down his forearm. “That’s right. Why have you never interviewed him?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Who says I’ve never interviewed him?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I do keep an eye on these things, you know.” She leaned over him, fixing him with an analytical stare … as if she could draw the truth out of him by mere force of will. But his face remained impassive, as always.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You should make an appointment with Van Ness,” she continued. “I think you’d like him. Because he’s just like you—he has no </span><span class="none2">perspective </span><span class="none">on the graceful state of human existence within the Commonwealth.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Imagine that.” Nikko’s bitterness leached into his voice. “He’s got to be a hundred and something years old. You’d think he would have learned by now.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She ignored him. “Van Ness got in my way today. The bastard. His one claim to fame is that he dissected the neural tissue from Leander’s toasted corpse and isolated the Bohr Maker. Anybody could have done it. But he’s lived off the moment ever since. And every time I petition to have the Bohr file destroyed, he logs a counter-petition claiming it as essential research material.” Her lip curled in contempt. “He doesn’t want his accomplishment erased. That’s all.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She shook her head, setting her mane of coppery hair swaying. “The Bohr Maker is too dangerous to retain. Police Makers can’t compete with it. We’d have to violate our own laws against adaptive artificial intelligence systems to make anything that would really threaten it. It has all the advantages. If it ever got loose, it could rearrange the balance of power in the Commonwealth as easily as it rearranged Leander’s brain. But Van Ness doesn’t give a damn about that. He’d rather risk the security of the Commonwealth than lose his prize.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Very quietly, Nikko said: “I don’t blame him.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin gave him a withering stare. She knew how badly he wanted that Maker. She knew he’d tried to get to the file through her. Perhaps she suspected he’d also tried to get there through Van Ness.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She hissed softly. “Like I said. Neither one of you has any perspective.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko suppressed a sigh. Things were going very badly. He should go home. There was no point in staying here.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But instead he forced himself up. “Get dressed,” he said. “Take me to the balcony.” He couldn’t wander without her. Here he was only a ghost overlaid on her reality, dependent on her senses for a picture of her world.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Obligingly, she slipped her gown back on, then took his arm. They drifted together across the plush carpets, intermittent toe-taps enough to keep them aloft while they pretended at love. The door warden winked its amber electronic eye and a glass panel slid open.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin lived in Castle. The city was the seat of Commonwealth government, a bubble of life at the end of the space elevator that rose out of India. Atmospheric rockets had been banned for decades, and the elevator was the only means of travel between Earth and the orbital cities, creating an information bottleneck presided over by the police. The police maintained Gates at both ends of the elevator which logged the identity of every traveler going to or from Earth, while scanning them for illegal molecular material. In the early days of its construction, critics had mocked the elevator as the Imperial Highway, and the name stuck, as resonant names usually do.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko gripped the glass cage that enclosed the balcony and looked out on the Highway. It was less than a kilometer away, a great ribbon of black glass and amber lights rising out of the Castle’s courtyard, straight up past the hundreds of spires of intricately worked glass and white ceramic perfection that were the Castle towers, past the gel lock and the transparent bubble that encased this fairyland. On into the empty spaces of the Gulf until it vanished in the dark and the distance. Black on black, the Imperial Highway stretched for over forty thousand miles until it met the Earth.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	It was night in India.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Every half hour an elevator car the size of a ten-story building would appear on one of the Highway’s six Castle-bound tracks, decelerating rapidly as it approached the Castle gates. Fifteen minutes later another car would leave on one of the six Earth-bound tracks. Nikko could make that journey only as a ghost. His physique had been designed for the variable G of Summer House, his own native city, where the highest pseudogravity reached only three-quarters Earth normal. This was one of his few regrets.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He breathed in the pleasant atmosphere. It was a few degrees warmer here than inside, reminding him of the balmy interior of Summer House. He felt his dark mood begin to ease. Perhaps he could find it in himself to charm Kirstin after all.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He let himself drift down into a chair beside her, as a ‘bot rolled onto the balcony, carrying a pot of tea on its flat back. It squatted between them, performing as a table.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin lifted the teapot and carefully poured a syrupy stream, then set china splash lids on the full cups. Steam rose in white tendrils through the sipping slots.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko reached for his cup. His enameled fingers clacked against the bone-white china: like meeting like. He felt the searing heat and the steam in his nostrils. He lifted the cup. If a third person had been present, the intruding eyes would have seen the cup still upon the table, undisturbed, while Kirstin drank her tea alone, because a ghost could not really affect the physical world, not so much as by picking up a cup.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But within the cloistered reality shared by Nikko and Kirstin, this long-fingered hand that seemed to move the cup was a faithful depiction of the actual hand of the real Nikko Jiang-Tibayan, complete with the same disabilities. His hand twitched in a sudden, grotesque spasm. Scalding tea sloshed against the cup’s lid, emerging like a dark ribbon through the sipping slot to collapse in a burning line across his wrist. He swore at the pain, and his hand snapped down, inadvertantly launching the cup toward the tiled floor. It fell like a tiny missile, shattering on impact, shards of ceramic perfection flying apart in a fountaining explosion of unhappy disorder.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin watched the pieces fly overhead, then fall back down again in long arcs. Globs and streamers of dark tea added to the illusory mess. She looked at Nikko and clucked in studied scorn. “You’re getting so clumsy, Nikko darling. And my fine antiques! If you were real, and no ghost, I daresay I wouldn’t have the nerve to bring them out at all.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	His hand twitched again. He hated himself. He sat very stiff in his chair and stared out at the thread of the Imperial Highway. “What do you expect?” he asked softly. “I’m dying.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Oh, please. That’s in such bad taste.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You can stop it.” He bit down hard on his lip, horrified at what he’d just said. He hadn’t planned it. The words had just rolled off his tongue. He turned stiffly, to see what effect this blunder would have on Kirstin.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Her face was lit with the faintest of smiles. “At last, at last,” she crooned. Her brown eyes seemed to chide him. “Nikko darling, I love you for your stubbornness. But I see even you have limits. And finally, after—what has it been now? two years in my bed?—you come to the point of this charade of love. ‘Kirstin, dearest,’” she said, mocking his deep voice, “‘I’ve screwed you faithfully. Now won’t you grant me a reprieve?’” She laughed. “My sweet gigolo.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	His kisheer unfolded across his shoulders in a short cape, the thin film of it aquiver with his silent rage. </span><span class="none2">Gigolo. </span><span class="none">She was kind. </span><span class="none2">Whore </span><span class="none">was the word he might have used. Fuck for your life.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You’re a hard old hypocrite,” he told her. “But you won’t have much longer to enjoy me in your bed. How do you think you’ll feel when I’m irretrievably gone?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Oh, Nikko, you flatter yourself. Remember, you’re a ghost. I’ve never even touched you, really. And you’ve never touched me.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Ghost or flesh: we know what’s real.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You won’t be the first lover who’s died in my arms.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“There won’t be anyone else like me.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“So true. Freak.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He bolted to his feet. He couldn’t help himself. He caught hold of the glass cage that enclosed the balcony to arrest his momentum, then turned back to look at her. One long-fingered hand coiled in on itself as he recalled the smooth, soft vulnerability of her throat.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But he was only a ghost, and he’d never touched her.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You know I need you,” he said, his words emerging mangled past his shame. “What would you have me do?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She smiled, her teeth an icy wall that seemed to flow out around him. He felt himself trapped in her voracious bite. “I would have you beg.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He was a dying man. And imminent mortality breeds its own desperation. </span><span class="none2">Beg. </span><span class="none">He let go of the cage bars. He felt himself drift down to the tiles, legs bent. He landed on his knees. He watched himself, a ghost outside a ghost as the words she’d commanded spilled from his throat in a voice choked with frustration. “Please, Kirstin. You’re the only one who might save me. Please grant me a reprieve. Just let me live.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“No.” Her gaze cut across him in scathing triumph, from his head to his bended knees. “You’re an illegal creation. An abomination in the eyes of the Goddess, and I will not abide your existence beyond your lawful span—no matter how fine a fuck you are.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He shuddered—a nikko-blue china teacup deliberately flicked off the table for the pleasure Kirstin would take in watching him shatter against the floor.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Stop playing with me!” he screamed. “What do you want from me?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Nothing I haven’t already taken.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You can’t let me die.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I’ve been meaning to ask you—after you’re gone, do you think you might will me your carapace? That fine china exoskull would make a marvelous addition to my bedroom collection.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	His hands twitched. His fingers tapped like the legs of some monstrous spider against the dark skin of her finely muscled thigh. She’d gone too far. There were some affronts that even a whore couldn’t overlook.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But it was all right, he told himself. He was glad she’d done it. Because now the rules of the game would change.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He felt his anger blossom into a kind of fierce joy. Now there were no rules at all.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Enjoy your moment,” he told her. “Because I’ll see to it you don’t outlive me.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She laughed at the absurdity of his threat. “Oh, Nikko. I’m going to miss you. I really am.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But it was all right. He prepared his ghost to leave while she watched him with mocking eyes.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You’ll be back,” she said. “Because you’ll always carry the niggling hope that I might change my mind.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Don’t believe it.” He left her, to retreat home across the net.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p></div></div></div></div></body></html>
