<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta name="generator" content="http://calibre-ebook.com"/>
    <title>Linda Nagata - Nanotech Succession 01</title>
    <meta name="author" content="The Bohr Maker"/>
    <meta name="creation-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta name="revision-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre1">
<div class="calibre1"><div class="s2"><h2 class="calibre4" id="calibre_pb_10">   <span class="none3">CHAPTER</span></h2><h2 class="calibre5"></h2></div><div class="calibre1"><div class="s3"><h3 class="calibre6"> <span class="none3">10</span></h3><h3 class="calibre6"></h3></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> </span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The transmission time between Summer House and Earth averaged three minutes. Nikko stayed on the tether, clinging to a silvery tree branch with his long, prehensile toes, because the continuous tremor in his fingers had grown so bad he no longer trusted his hands to maintain a grip. He waited out the time that would have to pass before his ghost reached Sandor; before it could arrive on its emergency beacon and deliver its warning; before an acknowledgment could be composed and sent back to him.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He switched on his camera pack and directed the lens to focus on him as he tried to summarize what had happened. He sensed the scope of his documentary expanding as he spoke. “I learned today that I almost owned the Bohr Maker. Love and Nature! It hurts to watch a chance like this slip away. It’ll never come again. Maybe that’s why I tried so hard to salvage the situation. Tried </span><span class="none2">too </span><span class="none">hard. The debts are still coming in….”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Summer House moved through its long, slow spin. The silver trees that sprouted on the outer walls of the tether turned their leaves to follow the light. The distant gold sparkle of the magnetic launch tube seemed to move in a swift arc overhead. Three minutes passed. Then four, then five. Nikko felt his heart begin to beat faster, harder, as the critical moment approached. He stumbled over his words. He couldn’t seem to focus on a coherent thread of thought. His breathing quickened.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The count passed six minutes and his atrium’s emergency signal resounded through his skull, again, for the second time in his life, the second time in an hour. Moments later a form coalesced into existence beside him. Tall, blue, manly figure; exaggerated fingers afflicted with a grotesque, insectile twitch; exaggerated toes curled securely over black branches; an emotionless face, like a mask. He gazed at himself.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	For a moment neither himself nor his ghost spoke. Then Nikko felt the fiery heat of understanding grow with the relentlessness of ticking seconds, of passing time. If a destination address were unavailable, a ghost would automatically return to its origin.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	So Sandor’s atrium was unavailable.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Panic squeezed at his throat. He felt mildly nauseous and his heart rate seemed to instantly triple. Maybe Sandor was only crippled. Or maybe he was dead. “Go to Marevic,” he croaked at the ghost.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Marevic Chun was his mentor. She was also the regional president of Summer House at Earth. She was a fossil—almost as ancient as Kirstin—a sly old dinosaur who’d fed off the entrails of police kills for a hundred years. Marevic would be able to find Sandor.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The ghost nodded agreement. It was himself. He didn’t have to explain his intent. It downloaded without uttering a word.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko’s face had always been a lie, an emotionless mask. But now he wore it deliberately, hiding from even himself as he dropped back down through the forest to the nearest transit node and returned to his apartment. Fox came up the corridor from the other direction and met him at the door, his ruddy face creased with anger, his red hair wild. He followed Nikko silently through the door. When it closed, sealing them off from the corridor, Nikko turned. The camera lens floated on its tentacle, focused on Fox. “Something’s happened to Sandor. The police may have him. I don’t know.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Fox blanched. Into the shocked silence Nikko poured his explanation. He held nothing back, not even the theft of the Bohr Maker. There was no point now. Fox would still be here when Nikko was gone. Perhaps he could help Sandor. The camera recorded everything.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko listened to himself speak as if he were a detached observer, a silent third person in the room. Now his voice wore the mask.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Who was it?” Fox asked.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The question seemed to hang in the room, detached from all reference. Nikko cocked his head, then realized: Fox wanted to know who had attacked him. “I don’t know. But he wasn’t a cop.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	That seemed to anger Fox further. “A civilian got past my defensive Makers? A civilian?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko almost laughed. Professional pride, even in a moment of crisis.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I’ll need tissue samples,” Fox snapped. “Maybe I can identify the foreign Maker; get it out of your system.” He stomped to the door. “I’ll get my things. I’ll be back.” Tears glistened in his eyes. He hesitated at the door. Nikko braced himself for a gush of apologies; guilt-laden expressions of regret for his hubris in creating a son outside the human norm. But Fox was still working on his anger. “We think we can plan our lives,” he muttered. “We think we can model reality. But chaos is an intrusive, inconsiderate bitch.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The door closed behind Fox.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko stood frozen in place, at a loss for what to do next. His neck twitched a few times. The camera lens snaked around his shoulder, as the Dull Intelligence guiding it decided to record his deteriorating condition. He roared in rage, stripped the pack off his shoulders and hurled it into a corner of the room.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	His blue hide began to itch intensely. That was the influence of the foreign Maker, he decided: a pollution in his body that his mind could not forget. He found himself acutely conscious of its presence, of the fact that he’d been colonized; controlled. It outraged him. He wanted to strike out at something, but the room offered no ready targets so he simply stood in place, while heat began building up inside him.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He felt feverish. He knew he had to calm himself, or take a sedative. He closed his eyes. Arms twitching at his sides, he ran through a breathing exercise, deep cleansing breaths.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Thoughts of Sandor licked at his conscience. He tried to turn away from them. He’d sent a ghost Earthside. There was nothing more he could do now.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Cleansing breath.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He could feel the heat pouring off his kisheer. He needed to take a sedative. He could die of overheating. That would be funny. Yes. But bad policy.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Cleansing breath.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He must confess to the police. Exonerate Sandor.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Cleansing breath.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor was innocent.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He tried to coil his hands into fists, but his rebellious fingers would not close. His breath ran out in an angry hiss. Love and Nature, there had to be a way out of this mess!</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He remembered what Fox had said about the biogenesis function. Could he really retreat into hidden code? But how was that different from dying?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The apartment door opened. He turned eagerly, expecting Fox. But it was Kirstin who stood in the doorway, dressed in police uniform, a hungry half-smile on her plain face. She looked heavier than she had on Castle, as if this incarnation were more strongly muscled.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	At first Nikko was only amazed. Then he ran a check on his atrium, but no, she wasn’t resident there as a ghost. “You’ve come,” he whispered, his words afloat in a vapor of disbelief.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Hope surged through him. Had she reconsidered? Had she come to make amends? A warning voice seemed to whisper in the back of his mind: </span><span class="none2">This is Kirstin.</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	His arms had been half lifted in tentative greeting. Now he let them fall back to his sides, where they danced and jerked like marionettes. He chuckled grimly. “Kirstin. What a pleasant surprise. Did you miss me so much? How touching.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Her smile faded. She stepped into the room. “Give me the Bohr Maker,” she said. “I know you have it.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Nikko held himself very still. She must have found Van Ness. But if she’d found him, why hadn’t she recovered the Maker? “You’re wrong,” he said cautiously. “I don’t have it.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Huh. You don’t expect me to believe your little brother convinced Van Ness to run.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Sandor?” Nikko stepped forward anxiously. “What about Sandor? What do you know about him?”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“He’s dead. And if I have anything to say about it, he’ll stay that way.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“No! You can’t block his resurrection. He’s innocent.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“So prove it. Give me the Maker.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“I don’t have the Maker! If I had it, do you think I’d be standing here, wasting my time on a twisted old fuck like you?”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Her chin dipped. Her eyes glittered dangerously. “Give me the goddamn Maker, Nikko, or your brother is going to be thoroughly, utterly dead. The goddamn Maker and a full confession, you fucking whore. You fucking child murderer. How old was your brother? Eighteen? You killed him. Good as sticking a knife in his throat. He’s dead because of you. Have you fixed yourself up yet with Bohr’s Maker? Are you happy to be alive?”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“I don’t have it!” he screamed. “If I had it I wouldn’t be shaking myself to pieces!” He turned away, his fingers clawing convulsively at the memory of the soft, vulnerable feel of her neck. The recollection intrigued him. He’d never really touched her before. But now, for the first time, she was real and he was real and Sandor would be better off in the hands of almost anyone but her.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	But no. It would do no good. Kirstin was a creature of many incarnations. She’d just pop up again in another city, and swoop down on Sandor and Fox and Summer House like a harpy from hell.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	He raised his hands in a gesture of surrender. But Kirstin must have misconstrued his intent. She hissed and darted toward him, a stun gun in her hand. He tried to dodge, but she was faster. Somehow she’d managed to time her move perfectly, despite the unfamiliar gravity. She tapped him in the back. A charge raced up his spine. His rib cage spasmed, driving the breath out of his lungs, and he sprawled hard on the floor, bruising his chin and chest.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	In an instant she was on her knees beside him. “Confession time, Nikko. Where’s the fucking Maker?”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“I don’t have it,” he growled again, forcing the words from his tingling throat. His arms and legs were quivering, out of control. The kisheer had shriveled into a painful knot. “Van Ness synthesized the bloody thing. He brought out a physical copy. I couldn’t send that through the data Gates. So I don’t have it. I never had it. Never!”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“And Sandor?”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	He could feel the barbs of the stun against the back of his neck. If she fired it now, it could cripple his atrium. He sucked in breath after breath, feeling like a lobster, set to boil in its shell. “Van Ness knew me under Sandor’s face, that’s all. It was a convenience. Not everybody likes to fuck blue, you know. And besides, Van Ness liked boys.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	She struck him across the back of the head with the stun gun’s housing. “You dirty whore,” she hissed.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	He grunted at the blow. His teeth squeezed together, as if he could press out the pain. “Sandor’s innocent,” he croaked. “Didn’t know anything. Didn’t even know I was using his face.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“That could have been awkward for him,” Kirstin said acidly, “if he’d chanced to meet one of your clients.” Then, in a wheedling voice he’d come to despise, “Why should I believe you?”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Panic spread its wings in his belly. She had to accept his confession. “Why should I lie?”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Kirstin chuckled. “It does seem a bit out of character for you to play the hero. But technically, the possibility that you might be trying to save your brother’s ass constitutes a mo—” She screamed.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	The lights went out. Nikko felt a crushing weight fall across him, engulf him. He couldn’t breathe. He couldn’t see. He felt himself being lifted up; ferried away. Kirstin thrashed against him. They rolled together in a thick, liquid world as fiery <span class="none2">lancets </span><span class="none">of pain began to pierce his body, a billion tiny knives carving his flesh into a billion tiny flakes, pieces of himself cut loose and abandoned, falling away into darkness. His structure was dissolving. Flesh was stripped away from bones. Bones eroded and disappeared. Thoughts shot round and round in his brain in terrified loops. He was being consumed alive by microscopic piranhas. Torn apart by a billion hungry sharks, one bite at a time. And he could do nothing to stop it.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p></div></div></div></div></body></html>
