<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta name="generator" content="http://calibre-ebook.com"/>
    <title>Linda Nagata - Nanotech Succession 01</title>
    <meta name="author" content="The Bohr Maker"/>
    <meta name="creation-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta name="revision-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre1">
<div class="calibre1"><div class="s2"><h2 class="calibre4" id="calibre_pb_15">   <span class="none3">CHAPTER</span></h2><h2 class="calibre5"></h2></div><div class="calibre1"><div class="s3"><h3 class="calibre6"> <span class="none3">15</span></h3><h3 class="calibre6"></h3></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> </span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A snaking line of fire ran through the city. The black smoke that rolled off it was choking, toxic. Helicopters buzzed the air, dousing flames where they could. Below the aerial assault, Nikko’s ghost fled with his mule to the broken concrete bank of the river. They clambered past shattered foundations and sprouting banyan trees to a sheltered spot by the water, where they huddled, hemmed in by thousands of stunned residents of the Spill.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko shuddered against an assault of foul odors: the stench of smoke, the urinal stink of overcrowded humans, the sickening smell of burned hair and flesh. He hunched his shoulders against the olfactory assault, against the nerve-grating cries of human misery that mobbed the air, while his rage grew helplessly greater.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He hated this place! Love and Nature, how he hated it. And as he crouched beside the river, invisible to everyone except the corpulent, balding, unwashed scoundrel he’d hired for a mule, he began to consider for the first time that he might not be able to escape the Spill. Kirstin must have already set the Gate filters against him; he wouldn’t be able to upload to Castle. He’d have to hire a mule with an unregistered atrium to carry him up the Highway. But how would he pay for it? If he accessed his accounts now, Kirstin would know it. She’d trace the transaction back to the source.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He slapped the ground in frustration. And he hadn’t found a trace of Sandor! He’d been here hours, chasing rumors, each one more absurd than the next. Yes, a thousand people had seen Sandor. No, no one knew where he was now. They spoke of a witch. It was said she’d cared for Sandor after he’d escaped the local police. Perhaps she’d lifted him to Heaven.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Perhaps she had, Nikko thought. And where was Heaven?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A call came in for him. It was a recorded voice message from Marevic—meaning she didn’t want two-way communication. Very bad. The pressure was on.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">Nikko, Sandor was picked up in the Spill nearly two hours ago by the Commonwealth Police. He’s being transported to Castle for trial. I’ll defend him myself; with your testimony, he should be all right.</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	<span class="none2">I’m more worried about you. A substantial bounty’s been put on your ghosts, and the Gates have been set to filter your pattern. You can’t get out of Sunda unless we smuggle you out.</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	<span class="none2">But there is some good news. Our security team may have located the Bohr Maker. According to police files, it’s infected a young witch named Phousita. The police have been trotting in circles to come up with her, but so far she’s evaded them.</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	<span class="none2">It might be easier to find the man she runs with. He’s called Arif. He was once a slave, and he still carries an illegal atrium. A slave atrium, Nikko. You could inhabit it. You could control him through it, and you could control her through him.</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	<span class="none2">I bought the address of Arif’s atrium from the estate of his former master. I’m giving it to you.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita huddled with Arif in a metal culvert that ran under a street on the northern side of the city. A garish green stream trickled across the bottom of the culvert. The fumes that rose off the water were dizzying, so that even the neighborhood beggars refused to shelter here.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She crouched on the slick, curved floor, trying to keep her feet from sliding into the water. She felt like a tree that had been stripped of its leaves by typhoon winds, uprooted, tossed into the air, now falling, falling, falling past the edge of the world. Fire danced before her eyes. The voices of the children wailed to her from the afterworld. Sumiati with her unborn baby, Sri and Maman and Pieter and all the rest of them.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	And Sandor. She’d abandoned Sandor to the police.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She could have saved him. She could have saved all of them. Her spells had subdued the police dogs, sending the beasts into a harmless deep sleep. Her spells could have similarly calmed the municipal cop who’d started the fire, if only she’d been alert enough to notice him sooner, if only she hadn’t lost herself in the celebration of healing, if only she weren’t so slow and stupid and unworthy of the evil sorcerer’s powers.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif sat across from her, on the other side of the vile green stream. He hugged his knees against his chest, his head bowed, his shoulders trembling with quiet sobs.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif hated her. She could feel the searing heat of his emotion; another blazing fire.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She wanted to comfort him, but he’d warned her not to touch him with her spells and she didn’t dare disobey him. Now he wouldn’t talk to her at all.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	And she was so hungry. She leaned back against the curved wall of the culvert, struggling to keep from sliding into the green stream. Hunger was making her faint. It angered her that she could think about food </span><span class="none2">now. </span><span class="none">But the spirit of the sorcerer was beginning to command her as it had that first night when she’d run away with Arif. How much longer before she must run away again?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif stirred. She eyed him warily as he rose to his feet. The culvert was low; he couldn’t stand up straight. So he bent over the stream and stared at her with his violet eyes, as if he’d never seen her before.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Her heart began to beat in deep, powerful strokes. She drew her feet up, watching him closely, ready to run.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“You—are—Phousita?” he said stiffly, in English. His voice sounded forced, as if he were saying the words against his will. “You—are—Phousita?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She moaned and began to slide away toward the mouth of the culvert.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“No, wait! Don’t—run.” He sat back down, his body unnaturally stiff. “See, I don’t want to hurt you. I want to help you. I want to see you to a safe place.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Who are you?” she squeaked. For it was obvious to her that a ghost had possessed Arif just as it had on that night long ago when she’d first met him. Arif was terrified of ghosts. His master had used ghosts to control him.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I’m sorry to come to you like this. I’m sorry to frighten your friend. But there was no other way.” Arif’s mouth shaped the words, but it wasn’t Arif talking. “You are Phousita?” it asked again.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She nodded slowly. She could sense nothing of the substance of this ghost. But its words were polite. Nothing like the ghost Arif’s master had employed.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“My name’s Nikko.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita felt her heart trip. “Nikko?” In Sandor’s memories she’d met a brother-spirit of that name. “Do you belong to Sandor?” she asked. “Did he send you here?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif’s body leaned forward, to glare at her. “You were the one with him, then. He’s been arrested. But he’ll be all right.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“They’ve taken him away.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“They’ve taken him to Castle.” The ghost’s speech flowed more easily now. “But he hasn’t really broken any laws. He’ll be all right. The police won’t go so easy on you, though. You have to get out of Sunda.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Leave the city? Sandor had suggested the same thing, but even yesterday she’d known it was only a dream. Her place was here. The spirit of the old woman had visited her to remind her of that. In life, the old woman had cared for her, asking nothing in return. Phousita could give of herself in the same way. She knew she could. Why else had she been given such a great gift? But after today—</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The brother Nikko must know she was unworthy of the sorcerer’s gift. “But I can hide from the cops now,” Phousita said. “I’m a slow learner, but the evil sorcerer is very powerful. He’s taught me better how to hide, and how to soften the hearts of the cops. I will do better. I promise. What happened today will never happen again. I will make up for it. I will give everything I have to those who need me—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But the brother Nikko was shaking his bulbous yellow head. “You don’t understand. The police </span><span class="none2">will </span><span class="none">find you. And when they do they’ll be ready for you. They won’t be subdued by your talents again.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He crept closer to her; held her with his violet eyes. “I’ve heard people talk about you, Phousita. They say you’re a healer, and that you’ve been blessed with extraordinary powers. But the power that possesses you is not a blessing. It’s a curse. It will bring the Commonwealth Police down on you, and everyone around you unless you run away. What happened today could happen again. Don’t let any more people die because of you, Phousita. Trust me. Put yourself in my hands and let me hide you. There’s no other way.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She felt stunned. The words of the brother Nikko so closely echoed what Sandor had told her. Sandor had warned her that the police would come. But she hadn’t heeded him, and now the children were dead. It was her fault. She’d been too proud to listen.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Now she bowed her head in acquiescence. “Where will you take me?” she asked softly.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“To Summer House.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Her head came up. Her heart beat faster. “I’ve been there in visions,” she whispered. “I’ve seen it through Sandor’s eyes. It is Heaven … isn’t it?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko didn’t answer for a moment. Then he nodded thoughtfully. “It could be,” he said.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A few minutes later a car stopped on the street above the culvert. Nikko led her out of her hiding hole. They got into the car. It was driven by a dark-haired young woman. She stared for a moment at Arif’s grotesque face, then she turned her attention to the road. Some twenty minutes later the car drove down a ramp into a dimly lit garage. Another woman met them. She handed Nikko an Arabic woman’s veil and gown and helped him put them on. Then they all got out of the car. Phousita felt wobbly on her feet; desperately hungry now. She followed Nikko onto an elevator. It rose up a few floors, and then its doors opened on a palatial suite. She was offered a bath; fine clothes; rich food.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko commanded a thing that looked like a rearing cobra with a glassy face. He said it was a camera. He asked her many questions as the camera looked on.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She told him about the evil sorcerer, and about Sandor, and about how she’d learned to disguise herself and Arif from the dogs. This last seemed to amuse him. He asked her if she would change both of them again. So she did. After that there was another bath, and more food.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	As her strength returned, her senses seemed to awaken. She became aware of Arif once again. He was an imprisoned consciousness, a slave inside his own body: terrified; furious; helpless. She saw herself through his eyes. Felt his raging sense of betrayal. “You must let him go!” she told Nikko.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“No. I need him. His atrium’s unregistered. The cops may overlook it.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“But—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“No. I won’t hurt him. But I have to do this.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She pretended to sleep. But while her eyes were closed, she used her talents to investigate Nikko. She could still sense nothing of him, but after a while she located the evil filamentous growth in Arif’s head where the ghost kept itself. She left some of her tiny servants there to watch and learn.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko didn’t seem to notice. He got a needle from one of the two women. “If you’re going to pass as a Commonwealth citizen,” he told her, “you’ll need an ID chip.” He injected something under the skin of her forearm, and pleaded with her to let it alone and not change it.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Later, they both dressed in the robes and headgear of women of strict Islamic faith. Arif’s bulbous face disappeared behind the veils; only his violet eyes were visible. “If anybody asks,” Nikko said. “I’m going up the Highway for treatment.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	They took the elevator to the roof. Night had fallen. They boarded a waiting helicopter. As the craft rose into the air, Phousita caught sight of the city lights. She gazed in unabashed wonder at the towers of brilliant gold, the incandescent white rivers that swept around their bases. A sense of displacement swept across her. Was this the same city she’d known all her life? But how could it be? When night had always seemed so dark in the Spill.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Hours later she stood at another window, her gaze fixed on another view. She felt herself trembling, caught by an emotion somewhere between fear and marvel as she looked out on </span><span class="none2">the world.</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	So the brother Nikko had named it. <span class="none2">The world.</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	Palms and forehead pressed against the cold glass of the window-wall, she saw the world as a jet would see it, a cloud, a goddess, a satellite. The huge foreign city they’d left only an hour before had vanished to nothing in the immensity of this vision. The land that had seemed so vast when the helicopter had flown across it now seemed small enough to cradle in her arms. The clouds were tiny scraps of white silk unraveling in the wind. She grew somber as she considered the ocean. Alone on the world, the ocean remained immense.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	<span class="none2">“It’s so beautiful,” </span><span class="none">she whispered. She glanced shyly at Nikko. The ghost had said very little since they’d started this journey on the Imperial Highway.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She’d heard of the Highway all her life, never understanding it. The Imperial Highway: a legend, a story, so she’d thought, like the tales the old woman had spun to keep her from crying on dark, hungry nights long, long ago. Yet here she was, a passenger in a building that rose higher and higher, climbing a magical thread stretched taut between the sky and the world.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She and Nikko were safely ensconced in a private room with two huge beds, a kitchen, and a TV. To Phousita it seemed both grand and alien. But it was only one room among a hundred, on an elevator car the size of a multistoried building.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko sat cross-legged on the carpet, gazing out the window-wall. He’d taken off his woman’s clothes. He was shirtless, dressed in close-fitting pants, the camera pack strapped around his shoulders … Arif’s shoulders. Its glass eye gazed at her.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The ghost had been afraid when they’d passed through the police Gate in the port city. The terminal had been very crowded. The Gate had scanned their new ID chips and surveyed them for illegal substances. Nikko said that sometimes the police took days to analyze the scans. They wouldn’t know for sure if they’d made it through until they’d passed the second Gate at the top of the Highway. But for now they could relax.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita walked over to one of the beds and sat down on it tentatively. It was plush and so comfortable, but the associations it stirred in her mind were not pleasant. A sense of entrapment closed around her. She left the bed and returned to the window, stretching out on the carpet beside Nikko. His violet eyes shifted to gaze at her. Arif’s mind-numbing fear pulsed in her consciousness.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She was beginning to understand the slave atrium. In her mind, she was comparing it to the atrium of Zeke Choy. She’d found that she could recall the structure of Zeke’s atrium in detail, though the last time she’d been with him in his shop, she hadn’t been aware of its existence. One of her spirit servants must have learned the device and brought its secrets to her.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko seemed unaware of her efforts.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Her gaze roved out across the world again. “In the Spill they say that if you lead a good and generous life, when you die your soul will ride the Highway up to Heaven.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko was silent for a moment. Then: “I think </span><span class="none2">I’ve </span><span class="none">died. Marevic won’t tell me of course, but I think it’s really happened.”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	It was two and a half days later when they finally approached Castle. </span><span class="none2">Up </span><span class="none">and </span><span class="none2">down </span><span class="none">had reversed during the journey, and the car had actually turned over to compensate for this, so that they seemed to be descending rather than rising, sliding down toward a mountainous temple of white stone, its slopes studded with intricate towers divided by winding parks that made Phousita think of green, flowing rivers of vegetation. A transparent bubble enclosed the city. The elevator car slipped into it. The window clouded white. Seconds later they were on the other side, dropping down amidst the city towers toward a terminus at the center of a huge, circular plaza roofed with the woven branches of living trees. She could see people beneath the pleached canopy.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The elevator settled imperceptibly to rest. Phousita jiggled experimentally. Through the journey she’d felt increasingly light upon her feet, at one time even drifting off the floor. She still felt as if her arms and legs were winged by invisible fairies that tried to carry her into the ceiling with every step; as if her material substance had declined, and she had become more spirit than mass, a being caught partway on the journey between Earth and Heaven.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The room’s voice warned that they had one half hour to exit the elevator car before it was shifted onto an Earth-bound track where it would receive passengers for the return journey.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Curtly, Nikko told Phousita to put on her Islamic garb. He did the same. Then he stowed the camera pack in a small suitcase, and they left the room.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The hallway was narrow, and crowded with other passengers eager to disembark. They held on to handrails and moved in single file. At the end of the hall, a door opened directly onto an arrival corridor in the multilevel terminal. They found themselves in a passage slightly wider than the hall on the elevator car. A friendly female voice spoke from overhead, offering advice on the best way to move in the near-weightless conditions.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“That’s the Castle Gate,” Nikko said, his voice low as he nodded toward a black arch at the corridor’s end. He took her hand and held it in a painfully tight grip. She could scent the fear on him. It was his fear, not Arif’s. He commanded the body more every hour. It was becoming his body. Arif was beginning to fade.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She mouthed a silent prayer for Arif to hold on. Even now her tiny servants were at work on his atrium, changing it to more closely resemble the atrium Zeke Choy had kept. In time, Arif would be able to force Nikko out. She’d take the ghost into her own head then. By then, her own atrium would be ready.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She looked straight ahead at the Gate. It was a black-walled tunnel about five feet long, narrow, but well lit. Stewards at the entrance instructed people to pass through it one at a time. Phousita listened to the other passengers laugh as they moved through the Gate, joking about being picked up by the cops. Then it was their turn. Nikko was first. His hand squeezed hers even tighter, slick with sweat. Then he let go, and stepped through. She followed him, and a moment later they were on the other side, swiftly descending on a moving ramp into the open-air plaza that she’d seen from the elevator window only a few minutes before. The plaza was lightly shaded by its lacy canopy of woven tree branches. And there were no cops in sight, no cops at all.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita laughed in joyous relief. She tried to hug Nikko, but he would have none of it. “It’s not time to celebrate,” he growled at her.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She smiled at him in turn, understanding his fear, but not sharing it. Fear seemed a superfluous emotion. What was there to fear? She’d already died, there in the Spill, when the children had burned and her world had come apart. Now she was a spirit halfway to Heaven, enjoying the light, fine air of this city.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	An empty bench moved up to them from an underground tunnel. It floated a finger’s width above the plaza tiles, as if buoyed on a cushion of air. It seemed to offer itself to them. Phousita stared at it, her eyes wide. Nikko took her elbow in a firm grip. “Sit down.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She obeyed him.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Destination?” the bench asked.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Gold Wing terminus,” Nikko said.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	They sat shoulder to shoulder, while the bench ferried them across the plaza. Phousita grasped the edge of the bench, twisting in her seat as she sought to see everything at once: the people, colorfully dressed, traveling swiftly on benches and chairs to disappear down dark tunnel mouths set in the plaza’s white floor, or into bright open-air alleys roofed in twining branches. The birds, as colorful as the people, flitting through the branches, filling the air with raucous songs. The tresses of flowers: purple, white, yellow; exuding pockets of scent into the air. And overhead: she craned her neck, peering beyond the network of branches and flowers to the city’s tall, sculpted white buildings with their hanging gardens; and beyond that, to the black thread of the elevator cable. The sky was a deep, dark blue, its periphery studded with a few dull stars, while directly overhead there loomed a dark circle, illuminated on one side by a wide blue crescent aswirl with white. That was the world, she realized. And by the stars she knew that night had fallen. Yet it seemed to be daytime here in the heart of the city.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The bench suddenly slid downward. She gasped, as the light dimmed. They sped through a tunnel. A few minutes later the bench emerged on the edge of a small lobby, brown carpet on the floor, three rows of padded chairs, a window on the far side of the room that looked out on a gray metal wall only a few meters away. “That’s our ship, Phousita,” Nikko said, nodding toward the window. The room was empty. The bench ferried them across the carpet to a metal door. Nikko urged her to stand.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	On the wall beside the door was an alphanumeric pad. Nikko punched a code into it. The door hissed and then swung open in slow majesty, a shield of steel as wide as Phousita’s forearm. Beyond it, a short hallway edged with handrails led to an opulently furnished living room. “Home sweet home,” Nikko said. He started to lead her across the threshold, but she pulled up in sudden alarm.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	One of her tiny servants had come home to her. From where? Back in the Spill, Nikko had commanded her not to release any to the open air until they were far beyond the reach of the police. And she’d obeyed him. Yet the servants were here, drifting like dust upon the air.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Come on,” Nikko growled. “The ship’s ready. We need to go.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“But Sandor is here.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Of course he’s here. I told you the cops were bringing him up to Castle.” He tugged at her wrist.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita fought his demanding hands. “No! I have to find him. I swore to him I would.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Leave him alone! He’s safer without you.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“He’s not!” She shook her head, trying to make sense of the news her tiny servants carried. “That’s not what I feel. He’s afraid. He believes he’s to die very soon. The trial—it went badly.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko froze. He dropped her hand and edged away. Then he turned, grabbed a handrail, and launched himself into the ship.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She followed him into the living room. They were alone. There would be no one else aboard the ship. Computers would guide it.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Nikko leaned over a console set into a wooden desk on one side of the living room. He barked orders at it as she came up behind him. She touched her small hand against his back and felt him flinch. “You’re right,” he told her in a hollow voice. “The court found Sandor guilty of conspiracy. A party to the theft of the Bohr Maker.” He turned to look at her, violet eyes searching, as if she kept the answer that eluded him. “But Sandor’s </span><span class="none2">not </span><span class="none">guilty. The cops have to know that.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Maybe they want to draw you out,” Phousita said.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He nodded slowly. “That’s it. That must be it.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Don’t go to them.” She put a gentle hand on his arm to stay him. “Let’s wait here a few minutes. Things may change.”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p></div></div></div></div></body></html>
