<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta name="generator" content="http://calibre-ebook.com"/>
    <title>Linda Nagata - Nanotech Succession 01</title>
    <meta name="author" content="The Bohr Maker"/>
    <meta name="creation-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta name="revision-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre1">
<div class="calibre1"><div class="s2"><h2 class="calibre4" id="calibre_pb_25">   <span class="none3">CHAPTER</span></h2><h2 class="calibre5"></h2></div><div class="calibre1"><div class="s3"><h3 class="calibre6"> <span class="none3">25</span></h3><h3 class="calibre6"></h3></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> </span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita felt herself cradled in a warm, thick darkness. She was alone. Arif had been torn from her arms when she’d died. She </span><span class="none2">must </span><span class="none">have died. And been reborn, or at least conceived in the womb of a new mother. Her memories trailed after her, a continuous stream linking her to a life now past. She surveyed that fact with wonder. The darkness shifted around her. A voice spoke in her mind. No. It was no voice. It was the memory of a voice, someone questioning her: who are you? A voice as warm and reassuring as the darkness.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Phousita,” she whispered. But she couldn’t speak. Her own voice went out through her atrium. In that moment, when she spoke her name, she understood that she had not been reborn. She was still the same unworthy creature she’d always been. “But where am I?” The words were a subvocalized whisper, but the darkness understood.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She’d entered the body of Summer House: the knowledge came to her not as a voice, but as a memory, newly retrieved.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Summer House.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She must learn more. She began to compose a spell of tiny servants to explore this place, then stopped. She still wore the suit, the helmet, the blinding gloves. “May I remove these garments?” she asked.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	It would be safe. The House would evacuate a transit bubble around her.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The gentle pressure of the darkness seemed to recede. She could feel soft walls forming under her hands, like smooth, boneless flesh. She felt herself sink until her booted feet touched a curved floor. Then a thin blue phosphorescence developed around her, gradually brightening, illuminating the interior of a spherical chamber barely large enough to hold her.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She worked at the clasp of her helmet until it snapped open, then she lifted the burdensome thing from her head. A puff of warm, moist air greeted her. She breathed it in deeply. Ah, so much better than the nasty cold stuff in the suit.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She punched experimentally at the control panel of her suit until the garment finally released its form-fitting grip. It sagged into a thin, oversized unit. She peeled it off and stepped out, leaving it in a heap on the floor. Her hands glinted in shiny, moist patches. She clapped them gently together, and her eager servants leapt away in a minute cloud of mist. From the House she sensed a sudden disquiet, but she chose to ignore it. “Where is Arif?” she asked.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">Arif: </span><span class="none">the House had established communication with him. He’d entered the House with suit damage and was being transported to the infirmary for treatment of his injuries. The House expected a full recovery.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita swallowed hard against a sudden knot of tension. “And where is—” It took a discernible effort even to say the hated name. “Where is </span><span class="none2">Nikko?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	She’d glimpsed him just before the ocean swallowed her up. His trajectory had changed. He’d been hit by a piece of debris that sent him careening in a wild spin over the edge of the world.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	The House needed clarification. Did Phousita refer to the corporate citizen Nikko Jiang-Tibayan?</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Yes.” An unsettling mixture of delight and dread ran through her veins as she anticipated the House response.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	The House was unaware of the present location of Nikko Jiang-Tibayan.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	She sagged down against the floor of the transit bubble, her naked body pressed against the discarded suit. So Nikko had never returned to the House. He’d plunged past the edge of the world. He’d missed this sanctuary and fallen into the void.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	She felt a pious joy, a righteous triumph at that terrible accident. But why? How could she despise him so?</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Abruptly, she sensed an approaching presence. She sat up, as the illumination began to fade from a tall section of the sphere. The curved wall seemed to thin, then it drew apart like contracting flesh, revealing the interior of another blue-lit sphere and an old man with wild, gray-streaked hair that took the color of old blood in the cold light.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Fox,” she whispered.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	He looked at her askance, perhaps embarrassed by her nudity. The lines in his face were deeper than she remembered. … No. These were Sandor’s memories. He seemed gaunt, his shoulders bowed. He reeked of grief.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“You made it,” he said, as if he could hardly believe it himself. “We were watching for you. We saw it all. We tried to warn you, but Nikko wouldn’t answer.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“His atrium was dead,” Phousita said.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Fox stared at her, aghast. Fox had engineered the destruction of Nikko’s atrium. Phousita wanted to say something to comfort him, but an alien sense of contempt held her back. Leander Bohr did not like Fox any more than he liked Nikko.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Fox swallowed hard. He seemed to gather himself. “I don’t suppose … in all the chaos … you managed to—” His lips trembled. His forehead shone with sweat. “Sandor?” he croaked.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Phousita turned half away from him, repulsed at the thought of giving Sandor to this man. Until she realized he’d asked for Sandor, not the Maker. He was the first person she’d encountered who hadn’t shown an active interest in that talent. She blinked, and quickly looked back at him. “Can you make him live again?”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“If the code is good, maybe. Maybe. But time’s growing short. The biogenesis function’s been initiated. We have to bring Sandor back now, before it’s too late.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Phousita nodded slowly, uncertain of his intent.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“It’s a dangerous time,” Fox explained softly. “The cops have guessed Nikko came out of the biogenesis function. They’ve got a warrant to inspect the code, and of course to interrogate me—though I’m not going to be around to talk to them. We have to keep them doubting long enough to make good our escape.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“Your escape?” Phousita asked. She had thought Summer House might be a kind of sanctuary.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Fox nodded shakily. “We’ve taken a vote on it,” he said. “And we won’t give up what we’ve gained. The biogenesis function is our only insurance, and we aren’t going to let the cops take that away from us. Here. Here’s the electronic address for Sandor’s code.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	She recorded the address in her atrium. There was an awkward silence. “You’ll send it soon?” he asked.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	She nodded.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	He seemed ready to go, but he hesitated. “Your friend Arif was injured by shrapnel,” he offered. “He’s in the infirmary. He’ll be all right. The cops won’t recognize him. It’s best, though, if you stay here. The cops think you’re dead. They didn’t see you jump ship. They won’t be looking for you, so you’ll be all right, too, if you stay out of sight.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	Again, he seemed ready to go. But again, something held him back. “We can’t find Nikko,” he said.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	She felt herself stiffen. “I know.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“I can bring him back, of course. His code’s still in the biogenesis function. But it won’t be the same. His memories will be antique. He’d changed a lot, you know. He’d learned a lot from you.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	She shuddered. Nikko had tried to murder her. That’s what she’d believed when he’d flung her and Arif from the ship. But moments later the ship had exploded. So really, he’d saved her life. And he was Sandor’s brother. She loved him too. She knew it. She didn’t hate him. The contempt was Leander’s, not hers. She bowed her head, as a storm of conflicting emotions welled up inside her.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	She could not go on like this.</p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She hadn’t visited the valley since the terrible storm. When she finally returned, she was surprised to see how much the forest had recovered from the assault of winds. The trees were sending out new leaves of soft green and dull gold. The air was still. And the sun, where it filtered through the canopy, nourished with its heat.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She coalesced out of mist, to stand on a smooth spill of rock just outside the mouth of a small cave. She was nude. The sunlight touched her brown skin with tender hands. Her hair hung loose and long, brushing the small of her back. She felt strong, but dirty too.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor seemed to sense that. He’d been sitting just inside the mouth of the cave, cross-legged, his skin a little darker than she remembered. He jumped to his feet when he saw her. “Phousita!” He started to reach for her, but stopped, put off perhaps, by the expression in her eyes. “You’ve been hurt,” he said. “You’ve been changed.” He backed off a step. His voice shook. “What’s been done to you?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Her chin dropped slightly. She was caught off balance. She’d expected anger from him. Didn’t she deserve it? She’d abandoned him for days. But there was no anger in his eyes, only horror, as he seemed to look past her face and into her soul, to recognize the evil sorcerer: the true spirit of Leander Bohr now. Not simply his servant anymore, but </span><span class="none2">himself.</span></p><p class="calibre2"> 	His hesitation hurt her more than his anger ever could.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“I’m possessed,” she whispered. “The evil sorcerer lives inside me. I’m not myself anymore.” She raised her hand tentatively. “Do you remember me? Do you remember who I was?”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	He reached for her then, and enfolded her in his arms. His scent swept around her in an intoxicating cloud. She wanted to make love. She wanted to feel the false promises that came with orgasm, the lying certainty that everything would be all right, all right. But she knew that nothing would ever be all right so long as the spirit of Leander commanded her.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	She clung to Sandor. She pulled him against her with all her strength, as if by sheer physical pressure she could force him to become part of her, so that his soul might dilute the influence of Bohr. “Help me, Sandor, please. Bring me back. Bring me back to what I was. You knew me best. You can do that.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	He shook his head slightly. His lips brushed her cheek. His breath washed against her skin, warm and full of life. More life than most living men could command. He was only a ghost. She could taste his regret, like a bitter tea. “I don’t know what’s happened to you,” he whispered. “But I do know there’s no going back. I’ve learned that at least. You taught me. You’ve pulled me past all the horrors, Phousita. God, you have to pull us past this too.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“But I can’t,” she moaned. “I can’t get rid of him.” Leander couldn’t be exorcised. He was too thoroughly entangled in her memories. She could never remove him.</p><p class="calibre2"> 	“It’s true,” Sandor said. “You can’t get rid of anything. It all stays with you, becomes part of you. I remember—” But he caught himself. He wouldn’t speak of it. Still, she knew. She’d lived his memories too. “You can get past it,” he insisted. “Set yourself apart from your memories. Make yourself new. It’s the only way to move on.”</p><p class="calibre2"> 	<span class="none2">Make yourself new? </span><span class="none">She clung to him, savoring this idea.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Could it be possible to simply—</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	—leave Leander behind?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But if she did that, wouldn’t she risk losing other things along the way? Sandor’s arm tightened around her. She could smell his fear. He sensed the danger too.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She pressed her head against his chest. “I have to send you away,” she whispered. “We’ve come to Summer House. They’re waiting for you. They want to make you real again.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He sucked in a harsh breath. His grip tightened further. “Come with me.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I’ll follow. I promise.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He didn’t believe her. “Phousita!” he pleaded, his doubt palpable. “You come and go, and go and go. I can’t hold on to you.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“No,” she agreed. “It’s useless to try.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	They were insubstantial ghosts, ever-changing vapors adrift in time, impossible to hold on to anything with the damnably infirm grip of a human hand. “But I will follow,” she swore. “I will.” She kissed him deeply, then let him fade away.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She left the rock shelf to stroll among the trees. The humus felt coarse beneath her feet, warm, and full of living things. She knelt down, and scooped a handful of it, breathed upon it to blow some of the finer particles away, then watched the tiny, crawling beings that inhabited it as they went about their instinctive business. She must go beyond instinct, beyond any pattern set down in her cells. She must write her own future. Was it possible?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She gazed at the tiny crawly things, with their many legs, their simple lives, and tentatively, she began to weave her spell. The effort was spontaneous, not intellectual. She worked with a visceral sense, feeling, never planning. How could she plan? She’d descended into the handful of humus and become a worm, blind and dumb and living in darkness, chewing through the humus of the forest floor, eating experience, her own, and that of others. Digesting memories. She spun the silk of her spell, wove it around herself, wrapped herself up in it until she could no longer move. She became a pupa, outwardly quiescent, sheltered in darkness. Changing. From the pupa hatched a small brown moth. It crawled up through the humus to the surface of the forest floor and stretched its wings. Suddenly, she shuddered. Everything was so much brighter here, more intense. She caught the fading scent of Sandor’s love upon the air. She drew it into her mind, and as she held it there it seemed to swell and grow, filling her until she thought she would burst; a terrible, sublime ache that spilled across the plain of her experience like cold moonlight, touching everything she knew.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	And then it was gone. Her eyes flew open; she gasped for breath. Her soul was a small brown moth, and everything was brighter, more intense. And she realized: </span><span class="none2">it must be so. </span><span class="none">If she would fly above the plain of her experience, then every sensation must fall across her with the intensity of a first encounter. But like rain on the scales of a moth’s wing, the experience would flow away, a flash flood of emotion awash on the plain below.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Far above the flat Earth, her wings dried rapidly in the sun. She grew lighter, flew higher. She had no master. Certainly not Leander, though he was part of her. And not Arif, or the old woman, or the pimp who’d owned her long ago. Or even Sandor. They were all there below her. She could see them, taste the scents they’d given to her life, but they couldn’t hold her. She was a small brown moth fluttering so far above their heads they couldn’t see her. She was free.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p></div></div></div></div></body></html>
