<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta name="generator" content="http://calibre-ebook.com"/>
    <title>Linda Nagata - Nanotech Succession 01</title>
    <meta name="author" content="The Bohr Maker"/>
    <meta name="creation-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta name="revision-time" content="2015-2-21"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre1">
<div class="calibre1"><div class="s2"><h2 class="calibre4" id="calibre_pb_14">   <span class="none3">CHAPTER</span></h2><h2 class="calibre5"></h2></div><div class="calibre1"><div class="s3"><h3 class="calibre6"> <span class="none3">14</span></h3><h3 class="calibre6"></h3></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> </span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin’s ghost stood with Zeke Choy on the edge of a preternaturally silent crowd that packed a narrow alley deep in the Spill. She and Choy were both far taller than most of the people jammed into the alley, so she could see easily over their heads. Far down the crooked little street the morning sun blazed against the face of a long, dilapidated shed. Doorways opened into the narrow building at intervals of three or four meters, each of them—save one—crowded with spectators. It was the one curtained doorway upon which the crowd focused its attention.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“This is very bad,” Choy muttered. “Very bad.” Kirstin had to agree. People were jammed in so tight, there was no way her officers could force a passage through the mob. If Phousita really was in that curtained hovel, as the rumors on the street claimed, they’d have to walk on the shoulders of her fans to get to her.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	And what then? It wasn’t hard to imagine how the crowd would react if the Commonwealth Police tried to arrest their newest messiah.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Choy turned to look at her. Deprived of his visual input, the shifting crowd froze in Kirstin’s sight. She scowled at him in annoyance. But he took no notice. “Call your people off,” he said. “You can’t get to her now. You’re going to have to wait for a better time.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“What’s on the other side of the shack?” Kirstin asked.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Allende, who was listening from his post on Castle, answered: “A narrow alley; about two meters wide. But it’s jammed too.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Bring up the dogs,” Kirstin told him. “We can’t do anything until these streets are cleared.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“No!” Choy cried in outrage. He grabbed her wrist. She was a ghost, but she existed within </span><span class="none2">his </span><span class="none">atrium. She was real to him. “Bring in the dogs and you’ll start a panic. Anything could happen. People will die.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“I don’t think you understand how serious this contamination could be,” she told him calmly. “If we don’t contain it quickly, we’ll have to consider radical measures, even thermal sterilization. A lot more people will die then.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Choy’s mouth dropped open. He gazed at her in open horror.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Look at the crowd,” she told him. “I need your eyes to see what’s happening.”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor crouched by the curtained door, squinting against the glare of the morning sun as he gazed out past the cloth at the crowd. The sight terrified him. He’d never seen such a gathering before—so many people, silent, intent. Slum-dwellers. Each one of them painfully clean and neat despite worn and faded clothing. Somehow they’d heard of Phousita, and overnight this little shack had become the focus of their desperate lives, a place to find salvation. Could they believe that?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He knew they could. He could see it in their stance, in their determined eyes. And he felt tiny before them. He knew he could easily be trampled here. He turned to Arif, but the other had moved away. Sandor had no desire to be left at the door alone. He turned to follow.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The sun had found its way into the torrid little hut. In its light, Sandor could see Phousita sleeping peacefully on the wooden shelf, a slight smile on her face, while a little boy cuddled against her belly.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Get up, country girl,” Arif growled, laying a heavy hand on her shoulder. “The day is here, and you have a thousand clients waiting to buy your talents.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Her eyes opened blearily. She looked at Arif, a tiny scowl of confusion on her face. Then her gaze shifted to Sandor, her wide dark eyes aglow with concern. “Are you all right, </span><span class="none2">tuan</span><span class="none">?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Sure,” Sandor said. He tried to smile, but instead he glanced nervously toward the door. “There’s a problem, though. Things have gotten out of hand, and—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif turned and cuffed him. His head snapped back as a hot wave of pain sent colors dancing in his eyes. He stumbled half a step. Little hands pressed desperately against his thighs to prevent his falling.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Don’t let this boy scare you,” Arif said to Phousita. “There are some people here to see you, that’s all.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She scrambled to sit up, fear bright in her eyes. Sandor hated to see it there. He wanted to help her, hold her. Hide her perhaps? If only they could both vanish like ghosts. Reappear together on the other side of the sun, in some cultivated city where no one ever went hungry. Why were they stuck in this hellhole?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Is it the police?” Phousita whispered.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif laughed at her: contemptuous, mocking laughter. </span><span class="none2">Stupid, stupid, stupid, </span><span class="none">he seemed to say, while she hung her head in shame. And Sandor wanted to kill him. For the first time in his life, he felt hate strong enough to ignite the desire to kill. His hands flexed, fingers curved like claws. A growl rolled up from deep in his throat. He laid a rough hand on Arif’s shoulder; yanked him around.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Suddenly Sandor found himself without breath, on the ground, on his back. He could feel children wriggling desperately to get out from under him. His sternum was ablaze with pain. Arif had hit him. In retrospect he saw it: one sharp blow to the chest, no more effort than it took to shoo a fly and he’d gone down. How could the man move so fast?</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	And now? Already Arif had returned his attention to Phousita. Sandor knelt, racked with shame and self-derision while Arif took Phousita’s hand.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“The police wouldn’t dare touch you now, my magic princess.” Arif pulled her to her feet. “Come have a look. See how your reputation has spread.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor watched, befuddled, uncertain, wanting to interfere yet hesitating while Phousita found a path between the children. She tentatively lifted aside the entrance cloth. Immediately she drew back, uttering a tiny cry of alarm. “What have you done?” she whispered to Arif.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif flashed an ugly leer of triumph. “All I had to do was talk about you in the right places. You and your healing powers. A hundred other people did the same—everyone who saw what you did last night—it’s in the nature of people to talk. By tonight there’ll be no one in the Spill who hasn’t heard of you. You are a goddess.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He reached out and ripped the cloth from the door frame. Morning fell across him like a benediction, yellow clown aglow in yellow light. Brave and absurd lord of nothing, wanting everything. He reached a hand toward Phousita.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A low murmur ran through the street, rapidly rising in volume. People surged forward. Hundreds of hands stretched toward her. The crowd was an entity, demanding her presence. Sandor could feel its need, its desperation like a brittle wavelength shuddering through his mind.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita seemed stunned. But she took Arif’s hand.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The children were all awake now, jabbering like small birds in the dawn. They pressed around her, staring out the door, and suddenly Sandor couldn’t see her anymore. She’d disappeared amongst the kids and once again he realized how truly tiny she was. He scrambled after her, trampling toes and earning curses until he was at her shoulder. He swept up her free hand in his. “Phousita?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She turned to him, her eyes glittering with excitement. “Come,” she said. “You and Arif must shelter me.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He swallowed against the pressure of fear in his throat. He didn’t want to go into the crowd. But he would not tell her no.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He pressed Phousita’s arm under his and together the three of them stepped forward.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Immediately the crowd flowed around them, cutting them off from the shack. Bodies pressed against him. Intent, frightened faces jostling on all sides. The air was thick with a stench of sweat and perfume and incense. Someone shoved him. He stumbled against Phousita, struggling to keep his feet. His heart was racing, aquiver with a contagious panic that seemed to be sweeping through the mob. And he could see no way out of this. No way at all.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Then suddenly everything changed. The morning light seemed less stark. The faces that whirled around him began to soften. The press of the crowd eased, and smiles flashed from face to face. Sandor felt his own heartbeat slow. He drew a deep breath, eager to pull in more of the magic that Phousita had loosed upon the air.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He could see the wave of her influence traveling outward in a demicircle through the street, a spirit of peace, sweeping through the mob. People relaxed. They no longer shoved against each other. They stood quietly, eyes bright with expectation, all anxiety gone.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Those nearest still reached for her. Countless fingers stroked her face and hair, the folds of her sarong, the dark skin of her arms, the soft curve of her hands. Fingers like the close press of vegetation, touching and sweeping past, giving way as she slowly moved through the crowd.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	As she passed, joy blossomed on face after face. Sandor could feel his own mouth turned in a giddy grin. He didn’t know what Phousita was doing, if she really was casting healing spells or only charming this audience. He didn’t care. This moment seemed to outweigh his whole life. He was beyond questioning; beyond fear. He could have continued in this state forever.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin’s ghost hovered on the edge of the crowd, watching as Phousita emerged from the shack, escorted on one side by the clown-faced goon she’d seen the day before, and on the other by a tall blond youth.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	</span><span class="none2">Sandor Jiang-Tibayan! </span><span class="none">Kirstin realized with a start.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	But he was supposed to be dead, the victim of an overzealous municipal police officer. And besides, Nikko had sworn Sandor was not involved.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Yet here he was.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She felt the rush of a strong emotion, something fierce, between fury and delight. Nikko had lied to her again. He’d lied to protect his brother. But to no purpose. Because here was Sandor Jiang-Tibayan, exposed in guilt that would follow him all the way back to Summer House.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Allende called. “The dogs are coming in on a truck. Twenty of them. They should be in the vicinity within three minutes.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Kirstin beckoned to Zeke Choy. He stood transfixed by the sight of Phousita. “Look how she controls the crowd,” he said in awe. “How can she do that? How?”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“Come,” Kirstin said. “The dogs will be here soon. We need to get out of the street.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“No.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She glared at him, annoyed. Then she shrugged. What did she need with Choy now? She shunted her electronic pattern into one of the approaching dogs…</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	… and trotted beside the animal as it left the truck and entered the streets. Its great head swung from side to side, scanning its surroundings. The few people still in sight fled at its approach.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	It passed an intersection. Kirstin caught a strong whiff of gunpowder. The dog stopped. It lifted its head, its nostrils delicately combing the air.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A truck approached from the cross street. Olive-drab, and painted with the raptor insignia of the local government. The dog stood in the vehicle’s path. The truck roared toward the animal. At first, Kirstin thought it would refuse to stop. But at the last second, the driver slammed on the brakes. It squealed to a halt just a meter from the beast.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Municipal police officers dressed in light green combat fatigues began to pile out of the back. Each one of them carried an automatic rifle.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Outraged, Kirstin opened a line to Allende. “What are the local cops doing here?” she shouted. “Don’t they know we have an operation going on? Call them off!”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	The municipal cops gave the dog a wide berth as they moved down the street. Still, many of them gestured menacingly at it with their rifles, muttering ugly words. One spoke in English. “This is </span><span class="none2">our </span><span class="none">city,” he warned. </span><span class="none2">“We </span><span class="none">will maintain order here.”</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	***</span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor noticed a sudden change in Phousita. Her chin lifted. Her body stiffened. She turned to look over her shoulder, eyes wide with fear.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He followed her gaze to the low roof of the long shack. Three police dogs trotted along the canted surface, tongues lolling. Their eyes seemed to be fixed on him.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	A little cry of fear escaped Phousita’s throat. Sandor felt it as a physical sensation, the same way he’d felt her joy. So did the crowd around them. A ripple of terror ran out from their locus, rapidly growing more strident. It swept through the crowd like flash fire.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Arif tried to shout instructions, but his voice was lost in a sudden cacophony of panic. People screamed and started running, stumbling. Cries of agony rang out as some fell, and were trampled beneath panicked feet. A dam might have broken at one end of the alley, so rapidly did the mob drain away.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor felt himself running too. Phousita’s arm was still tucked under his. Arif’s clown face bobbed on her other side. “No!” she screamed at them, fighting their forward progress. “We have to go back. The kids—”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Bodies flowed past them, pummelling them. Uniforms began to appear amidst the ragged dress of the street people. Sandor recognized the insignia of the municipal police. Guns went off, almost on top of them. A whiff of smoke ran in the air, and suddenly a deep-voiced </span><span class="none2">whump </span><span class="none">followed by a low roar.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Phousita screamed in agony. She doubled over and fell to her knees. Sandor thought she’d been hit by gunfire. But she was on her feet again a moment later. </span><span class="none2">“The kids! The kids! They’re still in the shack,” </span><span class="none">she screamed.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She leapt away, running back up the street, against the flow of the crowd.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor gazed past her in horror. The shack was an inferno. He thought he could hear shrill screams from inside it. He bounded after Phousita.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She raced toward the door of their tenement. But it was curtained with a sheet of flame! Child-sized, fiery figures seemed to move within the incandescent light. “Phousita!” Sandor screamed, when he realized she wasn’t slowing down. She was going through the door, inferno or no.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He dove for her ankles, tackling her. He brought her down in the filthy street, the searing flames only meters away. She clawed at the ground to get away from him, struggling toward the fire. “The kids,” she sobbed. “The kids are still inside.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He fought to hold on to her. His nails clawed into her legs. His hair began to smolder, the fire was so near. “Phousita,” he pleaded. “Phousita, please.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	She hit him with a spell. It was only a behavioral virus. He knew that. But it struck him like a bullet. He felt her despair explode inside him. It seemed to rupture his nervous system. He cried out, and fell to the side. For a moment, his heart stopped beating. The fire seemed to arch over him. He gazed up at it in wonder, welcoming its searing truth.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Then the spell broke. A municipal cop was standing over him, leering. The bastard kicked him in the ribs. He heard bones crack. He screamed and curled in on himself. The next kick landed in his back. He braced himself as best he could, but the third kick never came. Then Arif was there, yanking him to his feet and pitching him into the street, away from the fire.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He didn’t remember hitting the ground. He opened his eyes, to find himself lying in the muddy street, staring into the still, bloodied face of the municipal cop, the green combat fatigue and brass badge marbled with red. Phousita’s soothing hands were stroking his face, her voice a sweet burr in his ear as she muttered, “</span><span class="none2">I am sorry, I am sorry, I am sorry,” </span><span class="none">over and over again in a soft, hysterical chant.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He turned his head to look at her. He could hear bones scraping in his rib cage. But he could feel no pain.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He gasped when he saw her face. It was burned red, her cheeks and forehead covered with blisters. He started to sit up, and she helped him. Then Arif appeared and urged him to his feet. He stood with their help. His lungs were gurgling as he breathed, but he felt no pain.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Except for the bodies the street was empty. Mixed in with the trampled human corpses, Sandor counted the bodies of at least fifteen police dogs. Some of them were twitching and snuffling, the way dogs do sometimes when they dream.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	At Arif’s urging, he moved forward one step. Then another. His legs wobbled under him. His lungs felt peculiarly full and heavy. Suddenly, he coughed hard. Blood filled his mouth and he spat it out on the street. But he felt no pain.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	He laughed, suddenly giddy. Then he was on his knees. Phousita and Arif were arguing over him. “You have to leave him!” Arif was saying. “He’s dying.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“But I can heal him!”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“There’s no time, stupid country girl!” Arif’s voice was high and frantic. “Your tricks frightened the cops away, but they’ll be back. They’ll come armored next time. You have to run from them. You have to hide.” His voice cracked. He was screaming through tears now, begging. “Don’t let the cops take you, Phousita, please. You’re all that’s left. You’re all that’s left.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	“But I can heal him. I can, I can.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Sandor blinked, and found that his cheek was resting in the mud of the street. He was staring at the burning shack. The roof had collapsed. The fire had spread to the buildings beyond.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Then Phousita bent down beside him. Her lips met his, there on a pillow of mud. Her tongue darted into his mouth. A moment later, the joy of her benediction exploded once more across his brain. “You will come back to me,” she swore. “You will come back.”</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	Then she was gone. And still, he felt no pain.</span></p></div><div class="s1"><p class="calibre2"><span class="none"> 	 </span></p></div><div class="s"><p class="calibre2"> </p></div></div></div></div></body></html>
